It would seem as if we are both leaning towards this. You You would made the comment like they don't need to specifically push us forward. It's sort of the system working. But it does seem that neither of us have said it explicitly. May- maybe we have. It It seems like we are both of us are in the place that we do not believe this is simply emergent behavior. That there There is ultimately someone or something or some things steering us all. Is that Is that a fair characterization of of where your head's at? >> Yeah. I I you know, I don't I don't look at it as like a one puppet master. I think things are less maybe Satan. Um >> [laughter] >> but outside of that framework, which maybe not everybody subscribes to. But if you if you do, then yeah, he might be the ultimate puppet master. But outside of that, I think it's a much more complicated integrated web. And so you have many competing forces that end up working for the same cause. And that is a much harder reality for people to wrap their heads around. But I often point to organized crime as a really good example of how this web works. So if you think about like the head mafioso, you know, typically he he's not the one who he has hitman who do his dirty work, right? He He's not going to be the one running around, you know, getting his hands dirty. And that's for many reasons, but largely it's because it makes it harder to trace. It makes it much harder to pinpoint the locus of you know, the operation. And I I think that's kind of how things operate. We typically have many nodes and there is all and it becomes a very integrated complex web where there it's a rings upon rings structure, which is actually what Adam Weishaupt said that he modeled the Illuminati off of the Jesuit rings on rings model. And he said he did that largely because it would be a way of being able to maintain secrecy, which would breed clout, right? If people feel like they're being given a secret, they're more likely to, uh, you know, hold that dear and to execute, uh, because they now feel special. And so you're appealing to people This is the whole Meister Efkols framework, right? You're appealing to people's ego, uh, and, uh, to their various desires and to, uh, you know, whatever kind of, uh, situational pressures might be, uh, very effective.
