I describe this as channel wars. >> Yes, yeah, absolutely. >> I want, you know, here's my channel, my publicly traded stocks, my flow of data. Right, and I want everything coming through my channel. So, if a a Huawei phone gives data to China, then it's uh illegal. Chinese cars are illegal. You can't buy Chinese cars in the United States because they send the data to China. Right. >> Right. >> So, I've got a channel and you've got to be in my channel. That was the fight I had, you know, with the Feds because I was, you know, I was returning money to to taxpayers and that was funneling money out of their corporate channels, right? Because they were subsidizing monopolies. And and they were using money out of the back door of HUD to do that. Okay. So So So, we've seen remarkable headlines, including you discussing this about channel wars. So, let me show you the next video and then I want to get back to your story on cable cutting. >> kind of delve into what we're dealing with. So, this digital news. Now, note on the map here, it is not just the strait. Okay? It actually goes around into the Red Sea. Again, very tight pass. Why is that important? Well, look, if you start to get into the things that it could impact, it's it's pretty nutty, actually, because it it is not something that you would initially think about. I I wasn't really focused on that. I'm focused on the oil and the energy and the impacts around the world, but the digital aspect is absolutely crazy. So, as I mentioned, it's no longer just an oil choke point. It's a data choke point. Everyone understands that the Strait of Hormuz, right? It's a valve for Gulf oil, but sitting underneath it, that exact same corridor, are fiber optic cables carrying regional and international internet traffic. That means a Hormuz crisis does not just threaten crude, diesel, and jet fuel, it also threatens cloud services, banking traffic, military comms, logistics, and AI infrastructure. >> Okay, so so um you know, over the years you and I have seen many uh strategic moments when underground cables get cut. >> Yep. >> Right. So so tell us a little bit about your cable cutting updates. >> Well, the cable business started way back in in uh the 2000s with that attack on a California electrical substation, when you had what the FBI itself would go on to describe as a professional team hit a substation, remove specific equipment, and got out before law enforcement could respond. That was followed in that same time frame of a few months. That was followed by the cutting of an internet cable between Flagstaff and Phoenix. Then that was followed by a further cable cutting episode in California, in San Francisco, where again the FBI came to the conclusion it was a professional team that knew exactly what to do and where to go. There was an internet cable that cut that was cut in San Francisco that interfered with a lot of bank traffic, transaction clearing, and so on. Then that was followed by yet another internet cable being cut that brought down the Salt Lake City air traffic control center, which I remember that one. It was reported on national news, that messed up air traffic control in the entire Southeast United States because Salt Lake City's air traffic had to be shunted to Phoenix and Las Vegas and Los Angeles and so on. So, I came to the conclusion and I don't know if this is where you wanted me to go, but my conclusion from all these episodes, Catherine, is these are deliberate attacks, number one. They're professional and number three, somebody is trying to map the hardware architecture of the whole internet. >> Mhm. >> And they're injecting themselves into a process. They're serving notice. That's in addition to the hacks that we saw against Wells Fargo and Sony and so on and so forth, the software attacks. So, in other words, this is a coordinated effort and I I have to say that I think it's probably a non-state actor or actors behind it. And they're part of the operation is they're sending some sort of message uh to Mr. Globaloney and something. I don't think it's Mr. Globaloney behind it. >> Right. >> Because this does not serve their interest to have these have these weaknesses exposed.
