The Enlightenment was a hugely heady moment in Europe. Everything was being challenged. Everything was being um overturned. Particularly moral values. So, at these clubs, a lot of it was people There was a lot of adultery. There was sexual um meetings. You They were challenging all the norms of what was sexual identity as well as religious identity, family identity, the connection to this. If this sounds familiar to you, I'm not surprised because it will sound familiar from other things we've seen. Um however, it was an extraordinary time. But, the other part of this uh exploded into radical revolutionary thinking. And that was that took place in 1772 uh with the dissection of Poland. Um and we are still deeply enmeshed in the consequence of Catherine the Great's Pale of Settlement. It exported it finally exported um if you like uh revolutionary Trotskyism to America that ultimately became the Neocon groups. Uh and to Russia, the Bolshevik Revolution. And Zionism into England, which eventually led to the creation of the state of Israel. Um so, all of this came out of this grouping uh uh and movements that would take place. The other wing to these movements, and this is often separated, um or was really the unprecedented growth of certain families, particularly from Frankfurt, that were connected to the Messianic movement of Sabbatean Frankist circles in Frankfurt at that time, but spread through the family connections, the dynasties, to the point at which some of these banking families were more powerful than the governments. They were lending to the government. It was certainly the case in 1815, the Rothschilds crashed the stock market of Britain. By the following year, they'd crashed the Bank of England, which had been established sometime earlier. And then in the following year, they did that to in France and fair in a different way, crashed the financial system. Such that a leading member of some of these families was saying, were able to say, "I don't care who's on the throne in England. I wouldn't care who is the prime minister because I know that through money and credit I control the state." And they were financing wars directly. They It set up what was called the Round Table. It was run by Lord Alfred Milner. And the Round Table worked behind the scenes at the highest level of British government shaping foreign policy. It was another secret society. It cited the Boer War. The Boer War was waged primarily to raise the collateral to fund rearmament confronting Germany at that point. uh and uh and spawned the Royal Institute of International Affairs, the Council on Foreign Relations, the CFR, and the RIIA, and spawned the Bilderberg Group in 1954 and the Trilateral Commission in 7 1973. All of which had an ideology of moving towards uh uh a world government and a world financial and economic system.
