The concept of liberty, I think that the best way to really think about it is that Clausewitz Uh so, for those who aren't familiar, uh Clausewitz wrote On War. And uh the the German term is Weltanschauungskrieg, which means worldview warfare. So, he essentially said that uh war is an extension of politics. And so, it's really about worldview warfare. And I think that that's what we're dealing with today. You know, people talk about things like fifth-generation war. And that's essentially what it is. It's this battle against your worldview. And when we look at things like Tavistock, social engineering, the education system, uh the medical paradigm, all of what they're attacking is the traditional worldview of what it means to be human. And you know, traditionally, historically, the worldview was this uh Judeo-Christian concept of Imago Dei. This idea that there is a distinct creator-creation distinction, and that we are made in the image of God, which means that we have inherent dignity. We have, as the Declaration of Independence says, inalienable rights uh just by sheer virtue of being human. The I I've recently wrote an article uh it's a basically a book. It's a very long. It's called The Factory Reset, uh which shows how there's this uh several millennia long uh through, if you look at the lens of Western uh tradition, this battle philosophically between the being and becoming. And that's what I think is at the heart of all of this. And so, the being tradition is this tradition of Imago Dei. This idea that we have a fixed nature. Uh that human beings uh are endowed with inalienable rights, with inherent dignity, and a fixed nature that is not malleable. Uh the other side is the becoming lineage. And this is the idea that we can become managed nodes, that we are a process to be engineered. And if we can be engineered and processed and evolved, we can be completely reconstructed and essentially overwritten. And the entire notion of what it means to be human can be changed.
