For 10 years I was an investment advisor and what everyone who came to me wanted with rare exception was a plan to get away. And everybody would you know, can I go to Switzerland? Can I put my money in a Cook Island trust? Can I you know, they wanted to handle the problem individually and get away. And I kept telling them there's no way. You have to organize and turn and go right in the center and and turn it right in the center. You you can't go away. You have to go in and fix it. And everyone would say that's too hard. >> [laughter] >> And I [clears throat] I shouldn't say everyone cuz you've never said that. You've never said that's too hard. You always say we have to deal with this. So so >> Oh oh I would like to respond to this because here in the Netherlands so many entrepreneurs there are meetings of like thousands and it's like how quickly can we get to Paraguay? And when there are solutions, it's about like selling your assets and investing them in East Germany or something or East sorry East Europe and going into Bitcoin or gold. And then really these are these are not solutions. That's it's avoidance and it's it's not going to save you and I think the whole this this whole it's a global policy agenda. So it's going to happen everywhere. And that's something I realized and I never realized this before because I lived in the US as well and when I was living there I didn't even want to get back. But I thought like I feel very Dutch. I like my country. I like the culture. And if I go somewhere, I'm a refugee. And and all these people are focusing on subsistence like and then I think I like doing research. I want I want the Dutch culture to stay and if all the people that really see how bad things are really if they're leaving then we sure are going to lose. But here in the Netherlands I also with knowing the culture, knowing the systems, knowing the language, this is this is where I can do something. This is where I can be effective, and I don't see myself being effective, I don't know, going into a village in in France in the middle of nowhere and try to start a veggie garden. Like it's just not inspiring. >> So, I believe what I found when I sort of wandered through this world of all the different plans to get away, many of them are dead ends, and many of them are honey traps, and they are encouraged by the people who want central control as a way to trick all the people dissatisfied into, you know, not collecting and gathering and and doing effective organization. In other words, it's a you know, many of them are a trick and a trap. And and and they're being, you know, they're being tricked into staying away from the third rail. What what your piece is about is how do you effectively gather and re-engineer the third rail. So, do you know what I mean by the third rail? >> Yes, yes. >> Right. Okay, so for those of you who who haven't heard me talk about the third rail, in a transit system or a train system, you have two tracks for the wheels, and then you have a trim tab or a flap that goes to the third rail, which is where the power runs. And so, you know, if we cannot solve this problem unless we re-engineer how the power runs. And and the way you control a country is one neighborhood at a time, bottom up. And so, if we're going to change the third rail, we have to go, we have to gather together and go in and and start to deal with that. So, and one of the ways we have to deal with that is all my life I've heard about political action, um but if you look at how the money works, the money that is controlling and moving this is both public and private. And if you look at our enemy, if you look at Mr. Global, he's very effective in engineering public and private economic partnerships. And if we're going to push back, we can't just push back through one line. We have to push back together through both lines.
