I saw that real pushback if you do it in a strategic manner. So, not just protesting, but like being strategic that it worked. And really the report came from frustration. Because um whenever I said people needs to get organized, like you need to professionalize this, you need to finance it, but then there's real ground for hope, for opportunity. And each time when I said that they said, "Well, the government is so corrupt. This is completely useless. Why are you focusing on this?" Really, local government? No, this is just that's just like a drop on a in a bucket. And so yeah, I was so frustrated because I thought I think this is where the real opportunity is and each time it fell on deaf ears. >> So, here's the thing. One, local is where the action is because the way you control is one neighborhood at a time. You control all the neighborhoods bottom up and that's how they get the big control. And by interesting us all in the national or international level, it gives them the ability to lock down the locals. And that's where they, you know, so much power is gathered there. So, so local is so important, but the other thing is you have to have a good map. If you don't have a good map, you're going to flounder and you need to see what tactics work and what don't. And um it's just amazing. You've really called out the success stories and and so with this, you have a chance to get a good map, get in the game, and get something done. And if enough people do that, and you don't need everybody. If five five to 10% of the people in a local area who are invested in that area will do this, that's a revolution. >> Yes. >> Yeah. And I have to say this is coming out at a perfect time because I spent the last six weeks, uh I'm in America right now and I well I'm in Canada right now but I spent the last 6 weeks here going around North America and you know something the the under 55 groups are it's like somebody hit a switch and they are all out of their couch and they're ready to take action and it's wonderful to see. They're just saying you know in America they're saying the uniparty is toast we have no interest in any of them. We can't vote our way out of this. How do we take real action? So this is going to plop out on very fertile ground.
