Tim Wu wrote a wonderful book and I think I asked you in the Netherlands if you'd read it. It's called um The Master Switch. And he goes back 200 years and and goes through the history of the development of information technology. So, a new technology comes out and all the entrepreneurs are all excited and they're like, "Oh, this is great. We're all going to be free." And there's this wonderful blossoming of entrepreneurial prototyping and testing and then suddenly boom, it centralizes. You know, and then it happens again through the telegram and then the or the telegraph and then the telephone and then the you know, and it keeps centralizing. And so, this time when it centralizes though, if you get financial transaction control, it's going to centralize in a lock that could stop, you know, that could be it. And so, it's almost as though uh uh a centuries-old battle is coming to a head and and the question is will tyranny win or will freedom win? And this is the like the big >> ultimate question. I think it's a really great way to look at the arc of history frankly because I think this bad this conflict or this even flow happens repeatedly. >> Well, well, you know, I went back and I looked at my family history. And we're in [snorts] Utah which has like the best family history place in the world, but I went and I looked and I realized they had for 500 years they'd been moving to get away from the tyranny. >> Oh, wow. >> And they kept moving west. And you know, now when I was an investment advisor, everybody kept saying, "Tell me how I can get away." You know, and I I feel like saying after 500 years, there is no way. We need to turn walk into the center and deal with it. >> It's kind of This is a really interesting point. It's that for you just escape to another place and that's like, "Well, it's all over." So, we have to actually um deal with it head-on. Well, I'd be an advocate that AI can help us because it is technology. It's not It's a technology that could be used for whatever purpose. Well, if empowering individuals and small groups yes, we're not going to use machine guns. We're going to use bow and arrows. That's not going to work. Then you're going to be >> [laughter] >> enslaved. That's right. You've got to use the technology that's available and it can absolutely be the seeds have been already planted. That's the good news. Like there's a lot of challenging news. I mean there's a lot of investment. There's a lot of stories happening. This is actually why I get up every day and I'm so excited about open teams because it it builds on a career for me. It builds on what I've been doing ever since I was a scientist trying to make technology easier for scientists to understand all the way through open source, all the way through building businesses. So I'm excited to help people not just lean into building intelligence hubs, but also lean into building businesses that are distributed and centralized. >> This is what HL Hunt said. I told you this in in the know ones. Said, "If this country's worth saving, it's worth saving at a profit." And the reason that's important is if you're going to have a revolution, you have to finance it. And it has to be a for-profit revolution. It has The revolution has to cover its costs and that means it has to be entrepreneurist and thousands, if not millions of them leading the way saying, "No, we will be free and and the citizens will support us sufficient, you know, so that we can cover our costs. >> That's the good news. The good news is you can actually build businesses easier than ever because the AI can support the gap of talent. Building business is one of the challenges is it is is no one person has all the skill necessary to essentially deliver much of anything at scale. Certainly not at scale. And so a lot of building a business is organizing the group to actually do the things and cover the gaps.
