This next story, I mean, they just get more and more egregious. Traders placed over $1 billion in perfectly timed bets on Iran war. What is going on? 16 bets made $100,000 each accurately predicted the timing of the US air strikes against Iran on February 27th. Later, meaning the next day, a single user made over $550,000 betting that the Ayatollah uh would topple just moments before he was assassinated by Israel. Okay? On April 7th, right before Donald Trump announced a temporary ceasefire with Iran, traders bet basically a billion dollars, 950 million, that oil prices would come down. They won on that bet. Uh on March 23rd, traders bet another $580 million uh on oil oil futures market just 15 minutes before Trump said on social media that the US was having productive talks with Iran. Traders made a windfall there, too. Uh says one observer, "Not only the timing, but the amount of these bets makes it look very likely that someone had insider knowledge and placed very substantial bets on it." Said Craig Holman, a government affairs lobbyist for Public Citizen, who filed a group's complaint against uh to the CFTC complaining about insider trading. Holman was skeptical about how bold the CFTC will be. Look at this. Kalshi and Polymarket uh Kal both They they were temporarily banned. Kalshi was temporarily banned in Nevada after the state sued the company. Arizona, as we know from money markets, filed criminal charges against Kalshi for allowing people to place bets on election. Um and they lost that case because a federal district court judge says, "No, no, no, those bets are totally they're totally within exclusive province of federal law." So, that judge is ratifying. Said, "No, those bets aren't illegal. They're totally legit." So, and you saw and it's bet on assassinating a leader. So, okay your honor, is it okay for them to place bets on, I don't know, Assassinating you. the assassination of federal district court judges? Right. Is that is it is you you are you going to rubber stamp that, too, bud?
