And I just want to say, you know, whatever I've done uh I I want to again say, you know, I'm I'm standing on the shoulders of a giant here by the name of Stephen Zarlenga. And uh and we are are in the presence of a giant with the work that uh Katherine has done. And I I don't want to embarrass you by saying that, Katherine, but there is no one out there who is who I mean, really, you know, very vocal publicly who's explaining to people the the dangers of the current system and what needs to be done to protect our freedom. So, you know, I mean, that's why I came to this call. To me, when Katherine asked me, it's a privilege to be on a call that she asked me to participate in. So, thank you, Katherine, for for this opportunity to speak to your Solari community. >> So, you're you're welcome. I just want to mention something which is a source of great optimism that you and your team discovered in Cleveland during the last congressional election. Um you did a survey of the registered voters and found that uh I think it was 25 to 18 that 4% had registered as Republicans, 4% had registered as uh Democrats, and 92% had registered as independent or other. And it was your finance chairman who said to me, "You know, the uni-party is toast because the young people the young people have gotten it." >> I think that's right. I think we are moving in a direction where um the hold which the two-party system has uh is is is weakening. Now, why is that happening? I mean, it's very simple. They're not delivering in a way that's consistent with the uh economic aspirations of most Americans. They're they've become uh captives. The parties and their participants have often become captives of a system and they um and and it's all sharply interiorized. You're not part of the club, you you don't get the the benefits of club membership. And that's most Americans today. So, you're pointing out how young people are not they don't have that affinity anymore towards partisan politics. And that that's really important. There's there's a change coming. Absolutely, there's a change coming and we could see an independent elected It is possible that an independent could be elected president in 2028. You know, people forget that a guy named Ross Perot was very close in another era 1992 from upending the political class with his independent bid. And so, you know, there's that impulse keeps is still is still very much alive and growing.
