The calls I get are desperation. Somebody they love is trapped in the federal penitentiary, which we call hospitals, right? And they're under all these guidelines and rules, and they don't know how to get out. They're just like, um, every decision the doctor's making is making my family worse, and I have no power. And when I start to get upset, then the guards show up. Or their child's in the hospital, and they'll say, "Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah, I don't want that treatment because I have a feeling that that's not a good drug. Can we talk to somebody else, get a second opinion? I really need to research this. Could I have some time?" And all of a sudden, behind your shoulder, "Hi, I'm child protective services." And they show up, and pretty soon, you have somebody telling you that you shouldn't have dishes in your sink. And they take your children. So, all of this is so frightening and scary, and I keep getting phone call after phone call. So, I thought, "Who is out there that can help?" Well, it used to be just me and a bunch of underground railroad nurses that I would call desperate, and I would drive around in the middle of the night, and I would go break people out of hospitals. And during COVID, I may or may not have, um, put on my scrubs and flirted with a few guards while my friends ran in with wheelchairs, um, you know, and stacked up oxygen tanks and removed people from hospitals. But, you know, you didn't hear that from me. I I'm not sure that really happened. Could have been a dream. But, we did that a lot, okay? So, I thought, "What are we going to do?" So, I found some of the nurses that worked during the COVID, saw the nightmare, and one of them decided to start an advocacy service. It's an actual business. It's not just you're calling them on their day off, and they're going to drive in and do you a favor, you can actually pay the company, have a membership, and it really is like a it it's a private membership organization, and you can have a nurse advocate on call for you when you need it, right before you get injured, or before you go in the hospital, or before. So, that way you're set.
