First the goldsmiths realized, well, we got all this gold, but people are not actually collecting it because they prefer to keep it there. And ultimately, they prefer to pay in the deposit receipts. Because what's the point? Let's say we're neighbors and I buy some land from you. We agree how much it is. Okay, now comes the payment. Well, I've got my gold with the goldsmith in the city. Do you want me to go to the city? I get the gold. What are you going to do with the gold? Are you going to put it back with the goldsmith? We'd risk our lives twice and the gold, obviously, uh doing this. Why don't I give you my deposit receipt? I mean, I can even sign it if you want, you know, that this is yours now. And this is what happens. So, people use the deposit receipts as money and the deposited gold stayed with the goldsmith. And the goldsmiths would discover, well, nobody's picking up this gold. While at the same time, everyone knows they've got all the gold. Where's the money? It's with the goldsmith. I need some money. Well, I'm going to ask the goldsmith to borrow some money. So, they got a lot of requests from people to lend them money. Now, there was a catch. In Europe until 300 and 80 years ago, everyone in Europe, it was illegal to charge interest. It was illegal everywhere. Why? Because the Bible says so. Well, these people were saying, well, okay, we know we know that it's not allowed, but I'm happy to pay you interest and we keep it secret. And so, they started to lend out some of their gold. It was very tempting, but human nature is usually, you know, people very few people can can handle temptations. Particularly when you think you can get away with it. This is agreed to be kept secret. So, they started to do this. But that was, of course a breach of contract. Supposed to be deposited with a goldsmith. Secondly, it's a it's a new business model. The goldsmith realized, "Wow, this is actually quite an attractive business model. This interest um is compounding over time. We don't even have to work. We just sit back, twiddle our thumbs, and as time passes, we get more. We get interest. We get interest on interest. It's pretty hard for any other business model to compete with that." Quite immediately, the goldsmith would realize, "Oh, there's a better way of doing this." So, one of the goldsmiths at some stage will have said to us, "Listen, guys, we're missing a a trick here. The next guy comes to borrow money. I'll show you what what we need to do." Okay, we'll stay here. We'll hang around your shop. Yeah, he always comes around at this time every week. I always turn him down, but I'll give him a small loan today. Oh, dear goldsmith, here he is. I need this money. I'm I'm I'm desperate. I need I need this money. Please give it to me now. Um okay, well, I've looked at your case. I've looked at the collateral you have, and uh and yeah, you know, some of your daughters are quite beautiful. So, uh here's the contract. It's the usual clauses, small print, you know. Obviously, the interest, when you have to repay it, and and you know, I mean, your family will be sold into slavery if you can't pay. You know, just minor small print. Just sign here. Oh, and just one more thing. One more thing. And that is um I want you to deposit the money with me. Well, well, I need the money. I need to pay Well, but you get the deposit receipt. Oh, yes, of course. Yeah, I can I can pay. I can can pay anyone with a deposit receipt. That's fine. Yeah, I'll deposit it with you. So, when this happened, four things happened. First of all, the breach of contract becomes fraud because a fictitious deposit receipt is issued. Cuz no new deposit actually happened. The goldsmith says, "You're borrowing the gold. Here's the gold. Now you see it. Now you deposit it. So now you don't see it. Here's your deposit receipt." That is fraud. It's fraudulent. How do we know it's fraud? Well, there's two ways to quickly prove this. Here's a man going to the goldsmith, no gold on him on the way. Okay? And leaves the goldsmith with a deposit receipt claiming he's deposited a gold. How is that possible? It's a physical impossibility, so therefore it's a fraudulent document. Of course, the other way to check it is just check the reserves, the gold reserves, the gold pile at the goldsmith. Did it increase? No. There's no net increase. So it is fraud. Secondly, the business model now got really attractive. You can just generate exponential revenue growth, interest, compound interest. Um and what are you doing? You're just writing on pieces of paper, issuing fictitious deposit receipts. That is a very attractive business model. Thirdly, now you can really expand the money supply. And fourthly, and very momentously,
