The point [snorts] I'm driving at here is you're dealing with a kind of Agatha Christie murder on the Orient Express scenario. Because if you if you treat all of the evidence with equanimity, not try and promote a particular theory, there is strong evidence for each of those modalities and there is strong contraindicating evidence for each of those modalities. So, I'm thinking, well, perhaps we have different modalities because there are different levels of people involved and they're each using their own modality to signify their participation or presence in the operation. Once we've said that, then we have to we have to go to the to the next idea that that I present in the book. Most 9/11 truth community researchers, be it Dr. Wood or the national NIST uh people or any of the other 9/11 truth researchers, David Griffiths and so on, uh Thierry Meyssan in France, all of these people would argue, Webster Tarpley would argue that it's clear from what happened with all the drills that were running concurrently at the time 9/11 occurred, many of those drills actually mirroring the real-life events that were taking place and thus making it very difficult for the American command structure to respond because are they are they responding to a drill or is this thing actually literally happening? This is This indicates that there was inside knowledge of the operation and planning of the operation that had to have come from within the American government itself. And that's why most people have difficulty with the 9/11 truth movement. But nonetheless, that's the only rational conclusion you can reach. Now, they have been arguing and and I know I'm taking a long time to get to this, but it's it's absolutely essential for people to understand this. The people that have argued that there was planning and involvement of the American deep state itself within the events of 9/11 are doing so on the basis of the presence of those drills, number one, and number two, on the fact that the project for the new American Century under the direction of Paul Wolfowitz, a name neocon name familiar to us all by now, came out with their project for a new American Century in which they described the necessity for America to project American military power into the Middle East to secure the energy resources of the Middle East. And the only way to do that, they concluded, was because Americans don't like wars, the only way to do that was we would need a galvanizing event, which they called a new Pearl Harbor, to get the country to rally around projecting American power into the Middle East. So, they came up with this this plan to create 9/11 and an and a false flag attack on the United States. It's kind of like Hitler saying that the Poles crossed the border and they shot a bunch of people in radio station in Germany, we're invading Poland. See, okay? Oh, no, the no, the Poles did no such thing. You know, the Germans rounded up a bunch people from concentration camps, put Polish uniforms on them, and you know, herded them into a trap. So, that's what they're arguing. The problem that I have is that all you would need to do to get America galvanized for that kind of action is stage an attack, do some damage, but it's at the point that the towers come down, I think, that you see revealed a third player. Because all the levels of players up to that point with access to the American deep state would have been using familiar technologies, but they may not necessarily have access to the exotic stuff. When you turn on and demonstrate the use of the exotic stuff, you demonstrate that the whole operation is not only penetrated, but in my opinion, you could have accomplished the galvanizing action by doing serious damage to the Twin Towers, but you did not need to destroy them.
