I believe that we have seized about a billion dollars of their crypto. And >> Just outright seized it. >> Just outright grab the wallets. And this is money that's stolen from the Iranian people. >> PayPal Mafia, here we go. The architecture of power and the Rothschild connection. The history of that goes back to 1815 when Nathan Mayer Rothschild exploited inside information about the Battle of Waterloo to trade on the London Stock Exchange. A Rothschild established a principle that remains valid today. Whoever controls information before others do controls market. Palantir, part of the PayPal Mafia, does exactly the same thing. The very same financial intelligence capabilities developed by the Rothschilds in the 19th century, which were transnational networks, insider information, and the ability to influence decisions through credit, those capabilities are now encoded in computer programs and sold as security services by companies such as NSO, Paragon, and Cellebrite. Here's the deal. The Rothschilds do not control the world, but they represent the source code of the system that BlackRock has industrialized, that Palantir has digitized, and that the Israeli ecosystem has militarized. >> This is part of of of automating the clearinghouse. So, I call it the third lock, which is the automated control that comes in by software. So, you want to you want to look at a a shifting paradigm from a two-lock to a three-lock system. A two-lock system, let's say you and I do a deal. We have cash, and I want to buy something you have, you want to sell. So, so we both have a lock. We both have a veto on that transaction. You get a decision to do or not. I get a decision to do or not, and it only happens if the two locks click. You know, then the deal goes through. >> Okay. >> Now, with digital technology, banks started doing digital transactions, and as that happened, we started to add a third lock. You need to know your customer. You can't just do business with anybody. Remember, all of this is always presented as virtuous. >> Of course it is. >> this the the virtue veil, okay? So, know your customer. We don't want bad dogs banking at your bank, right? But then you have the money laundering anti-money laundering laws, and you know, with the Patriot Act, you get a big jump up in all this stuff. And then you have um the sanctions. So, there's increased surveillance and then increase intercession. But here's what you need to understand. That intercession is manual in this sense. You have thousands of financial institutions and banks, and you've got to deal with them one by one. So, if you're a Scott Bosun who wants to grab everybody's money, it's a nightmare. Okay, cuz it's a manual third lock. >> Yeah. >> Right. Now, why do we have 5,000 data centers? >> So, you can automate the lock of the third lock system? >> Exactly. Now we have a complex algorithm, which is an automatic third lock. And the beauty of that third lock is it is superior to the other two locks. And you can put into that third lock with this data you know, with AI and the data centers, as many rules as you want. So, now you don't have legislators and regulators, you have code. >> Yeah. >> That can be controlled by the bankers. So, this is almost the equivalent of the Palantir in the lavender system. Yeah. No IDF officer is responsible for international crimes and and the genocide of children because they didn't choose the target. >> Right. >> The software did it. >> Right.
