Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Cari Report. We have an immense treat for you today. Um, Alistister Crook is, as you know from listening to Money and Markets or listening to our coverage, is my number one go-to source for what in the world is going on in the Middle East and the world. And Alistister, I think I've listened to every interview you've done in the last year. I can't thank you enough for your work. Um, you know, as soon as something happens, you jump on. And um some of the most important insights we've had at the celebrity report have on what's happening have come from you and uh uh I should just introduce you. We all know who you are of course but you had a very long and distinguished career both in the British uh intelligence services and diplomatic corps and then literally moved to a process of of helping people in a variety of ways understand what's going on in the world in the Middle East. Um, you have a wonderful Substack called Conflicts Forum, which we hang out at regularly. I can't recommend enough. And you you're very generous with your interviews. And is there anything you else you want me to say about your background other than I I I I think you know how to embrace the real complexity of the world we live in. And that's one of the things I so appreciate about you. >> That's more than generous. So, I have nothing to add to that. Thank you so much for what you said. >> Okay. So, one of the one of the challenges of looking at the unwinding of the US China economic and trade relationship is trying to understand the proxy wars whether in the Ukraine or the Middle East. But what is the goal? And I've been watching now your coverage of the Iran war. And my question to you is what is the United States goal? and and I shouldn't even say the United States. What is the the oligarchs and the dollar syndicates goal with what is happening in the Middle East? >> [snorts] >> um with what's happening in the Middle East, I think if we look at the big picture, which is I think what you and your viewers are most interested in um is it came down to the security statement, the national security statement that was issued a little time ago in the United States, seemingly authored mainly by Colby Eldridge. um and he wrote a book earlier about it and he he set out really what I think is uh very clearly Americans aims and he said you know we have to coers China into exporting less and consuming more domestically. They have to increase their consumption at home. In other words, in order to leave us more space in order to be able to export into the global market. And he said there are two ways really of doing this. He said this is the objective to do this. Um one is uh trade restrictions. Trade war is one way of doing this. And the second thing he said was really to to squeeze their energy supply line. In that way we can pressure them. So we've seen this um across the board. This has become a a a very obvious factor. It is squeezing it through all if you like the navigable waterways through the choke points through all the accesses um for China. So we saw this in Venezuela. We've seen it in Cuba taking place. Um we see it in the attempt in Hormuz to blockade the Hormuz was partly intended. It hasn't worked, but it was intended also um to squeeze China's supply line. In fact, people overstate the amount of uh dependence China is on supply lines of um oil from Hummus. It's only 7% of of Chinese total because they consume so much energy. Even though it's 40% of the total oils exported from Humus, it's only 7% o of of Chinese energy requirement and mostly for their teapotss for their refinary teapotss. And so all of this has been an attempt to get control of the energy um generally and to control energy in the global sense. could control it principally through the choke points through if you like um all of the uh navigable waterways and areas. And it's a double-ended one because it's trying to cut back Chinese um energy supplies, but also to stop Russian supplies. So, we've entered what I call a period of tanker war because we've seen this a lot. I mean, there's tanker war taking place off the po Persian Gulf, but we saw it off Venezuela, but we've also seen it, and it's been, I think, less visible in the rest of the world, but the the the tanker war against Russia. For example, Britain is trying to stop um tankers sailing through the English Channel. France has been seizing Russian so-called um sanctioned tankers. S tankers have been um actually struck and hit Russian tankers um in the Mediterranean or at least at the mouth of the Mediterranean to the Atlantic. So we are in and we've had a tanker war before uh when this was more an Israeli tanker war where they tried to to to to to stop if you like um uh uh Russian tankers um arriving and it it didn't work very well. it was against Iranian tankers and others and it didn't work very well because it was tit for tat and of course it it failed because you know okay but you know it's it's it's an it's an all lose game because you know if one side starts attacking tankers then there will be retribution against their tankers and that can hurt even the United States which proclaims its you know energy self-sufficiency, it's still dependent on the flow of energy because uh energy is a funible thing and that if energy is in short supply in the Middle East or in Europe, of course it affects the price of energy because it isn't such a diverse and compartmented market is that it will affect it. So um yes we are seeing that and that I think is the purpose to do it. However already um it's had an important um uh reaction. China announced a few days ago I can't remember exactly which day. It wasn't announced. It was a big public platform, but quietly they said all of those restrictions that Treasury Secretary Bessent had imposed sanctioning if you like five refiners in China. not only the main five refiners who used Iranian oil, but also the banks and any commercial institute that was engaged um in this. They made it illegal under a limitations act which dates back to 2021 so that it is illegal for any Chinese to facilitate American sanctions of these um of the on these um on these five um refiners or on the banks or on the financial institutions that may be in receipt of Iranian funds. So they said it is now illegal for you to cooperate with America on these sanctions. This is really the first time that China has got so openly engaged in saying in defying sanctions. largely China has been surprisingly cooperative I would say uh on many on many sanctions and they've added to it because a few days before that you may recall that uh the Panama Canal has two ports on it which formerly were owned by Hong Kong Hong Kong entity private entity and they were effectively expropriated by US interests and China has also also said, "Well, passage through the Panama Canal henceforth will be denied any entry to Chinese ports. Those that are using the Panama Canal will not be permitted and will be subject to particular inspection uh before uh as they try and arrive in China, but they will not have access. So, they've made they've sort of blacklisted any vessels passing through the Panama Canal, they won't be received in in China. So, they've gi [clears throat] made these two quite tough um if you like um acts to to to in response to um well, Bense um attempt to sanction Chinese banks and Chinese oil companies trading uh trading with Iran. Just to add to this, I I would say um in fact, China is not being squeezed as people see by by what's happening in HUS because day after day large Chinese tankers I mean day before yesterday if I remember correctly one very large um tanker uh passed through Hum through the um through the Iranian processing um for China um with and this has been going on every day. Chinese vessels have been passing um with uh Iranian facilitation um to China. So have others some other vessels from Pakistan and from India and I think even from Malaysia have been passing through paying a fee, complying with the protocols to prove that their cargos were paid for in Juan um and not in dollars. uh and um uh the the protocols of which passage they use between Kasam Island and Larak Island in order to exit from uh Homus. >> Uh we just saw sort of new negotiations with Indonesia on the Straits of Mala. Do you think that the US is going to try and squeeze on the Straits of Malika as well? >> I think so eventually. I don't think this is sort of on the immediate agenda, but yes, I think this is part of the the whole pattern that was set in the national security statement. The the squeezing of China because the trade war is not going well with I mean the attempt to squeeze China by the trade restrictions as you know has not been a success. So there's more emphasis on on this and also on the inner ring of violence around China. There's a buildup of military American military um activity on that um the first ring of islands um adjacent to China as if it's preparatory to some sort of siege ultimately uh being uh a blockade being attempted on China itself. I think we're not close to that at the moment, but I think if you ask me what's in the mind, I would say that all of these steps are leading to that idea that ultimately um not just Venezuela, but China itself uh might be blockaded down the process. >> That's so extraordinary to think of. One one thing that I keep pointing out is in 2023, the yield on the 10-year Chinese sovereign bond dropped through the US yield. And if you look at what's been happening in the market recently, the 10 and 30-year US bond is really the yields are really rising. And in in a way that I don't think necessarily a new Fed governor can bring down. So if anything it says to me that the financial war that the US is hoping to win is not necessarily going in the right way. Would you agree with that? >> Oh uh completely. Uh I mean apart from those measures uh China I mean is is really uh innovating. They don't make a big noise about it, but they do it very quietly and they're innovating in in many ways. So, yes, it's cheaper to borrow from China, much cheaper than buying um in the US dollar market now. And so we have even European even European countries in the EU issuing panda bonds e issuing um borrowing in the one market um for European uh states that's Hungary and Sloan Slovenia are both if issuing their bonds not in treasuries but in one denominated debt and we've seen Also um even banks like Deutsche Banks are now giving a debt in uh in Juan if you want to to borrow and the Chinese have made this much easier with a a number of small measures that they've uh introduced for example for holders of digital one which appeals to people particularly in the Middle East and things because they're sort of gray you don't follow them so easily. um but they've given an order that banks pay interest on on holdings of um uh digital juan so that it's almost like a checking account I mean you know savings account you get interest on on your money and it's quite appealing there therefore and they've introduced all sorts of other innovations quietly like such as uh on the Shanghai um gold exchange, metal exchange they've introduced. And not only can you buy, you can buy outside the Chinese uh gold outside of the Chinese um if you like um capital restrictions areas in Hong Kong or in Shanghai in uh interchangeably. [snorts] Uh but the Chinese are issuing warrants. Not that you have to actually have the physical bullion, but you can have warrants um on gold and use them if you like as a treasury, I mean as a security asset. And you can have these and then you can cash them in and you could take physical gold if you want to or you can exchange it for something else. So, so a whole lot of those uh things are are are happening and um uh uh Lavrov just the other day uh said that the new rules that they introduced for trading exchange for you know clearing trade accounts between states they're expanding not just to bricks but to everybody. So, they're going to use the Chinese, if you like, technology that was first trled by BIS, um the Lbridge, uh the Elbank, the Lbridge, um uh uh system. They've just now, um BIS stopped that um experiment and the Chinese reintroduced it using entirely their own uh their own currency. So when the BIS moved out of the Embridge system, they titulually left the UAE in their position. And that's very interesting to me because the UAE is now trying to negotiate with Treasury. But I believe the Fed to get a swap line and the negotiation is if you give us a swap line, then we won't sell our treasuries and US stocks to raise capital. So that brings us to the Gulf Financial Center. We've seen an enormous growth of the Gulf Financial Center on the premise that they had a US security blanket. Uh that US security blanket seems to have gotten the rug pulled out from under it. What does that mean to the Gulf as a financial center going forward? >> Well, I I'll I I'll come to that, but I just want to go back very briefly. But what happened was the BIS experiment was cancelled by the United States on the eve of the bricks summit. It clearly it was not going to be allowed. So the Chinese took it over. They were anyway it was their technology and that's what is being used and that's what Lavro is decided will extend to many other countries in the region and make it available uh uh to them. Uh what you saw with the UAE um in this case is um a a direct quid proquo process. The what the the events just to update your viewers on what really has happened in these last few days in in terms of the hormos and the operation freedom. What was happening was that the UAE together with the United States was trying to coordinate a mass vessel surge through the Hormuz to break the blockade with some not very serious semblance of American military support. So the UAE was slowly, quietly moving its vessels closer and closer to the Omani side o of the entrance to the Homo Strait in attempt to make a dash through with many vessels and say it's open and we've done it. Freedom, it's been opened. And the Iranians saw that these vessels were sort of grouping and preparing for this and it instructed the vessels in no uncertain terms to move away and move back to Dubai port and keep out of the way. Most did that because you know their owners and their insurance companies did not want to take the risk of going through against the advice of the IRGC. However, um one um uh one tanker um a a UAE tanker uh tried to go through um uh and uh was attacked and was uh badly damaged, set on fire um by the IRGC and the whole thing collapsed. the idea of sort of surging through of operation freedom, it effectively collapsed and the consequence was um an expansion by Iran of its restricted area right up including Fujara. Fujara is a port outside it. It's actually in the UAE. It's a funny little extra part of the UAE that is outside of the Hormuz. and they have a a sort of um oil loading base there and pipeline to it. Um and that was destroyed in the aftermath of these events set on fire. So UAE now has no um if you like um uh ability to sell oil directly by passing the hormuz um into the Persian uh uh Gulf. So that was the end. That's why suddenly we all heard there were other elements to it which I need to go into because of your question. But there were other elements I in in in this too in that there is a major split between the UAE and Saudi Arabia and Pakistan and Gata and the other elements. UA is acting to support very closely working with Israel in order to try and break the siege in Hummus and is in favor of further conflict with Iran. They've made that very clear and they say they are prepared to cooperate with Israel and the United States in an attack. Saudi Arabia um refused to go down that and they were very angry at this attempt to try and break the siege by forcing I mean the American support was so limited it it amounted actually to telling these vessels look you know take the risk and try and stay as close to the Ammani coast as you can and see if you make it. That was the extent of the support they got. So not surprisingly, I mean it wasn't going to work. I mean this was never going I it was a crazy crazy system. That was all it was. But the result has been very important. Saudi Arabia shut the use of its Prince Sultan air base to America. Shut it. Shut its airspace to the United States altogether. >> And so did And so did Kuwait. >> So did Kuwait. Okay. Both all both of those states said, "Sorry, we are with Pakistan on this." And so we had a complete split between the UAE working ever more closely with Israel and the United States. I think I haven't got direct evidence, but it seems to me very likely this was the UAE's suggestion. You know, let's get all these vessels together. We'll coordinate. It was certainly coordinated by UAE with the United States will coordinate a mass um breaking o of Humus and not surprisingly collapse because it was such a crazy idea. >> How does that relate to their dropping out of OPEC at the same time? >> Um okay and I just answer your first question just for for for completeness. I mean the the UAE is suffering as a a dollar a huge dollar shortage. Um and um if you like I mean 450 hotels there have shut down. Uh there are no tourists uh uh in in anything resembling the numbers before. They are not exporting their oil. Um and they're suffering a big dollar shortage. you know, even the food has to come through Hormuz for the UAE. It is that serious that all their imports has to go through it. So, they said to basically they said to the United States, you've got to you've got to support us. You have to support us um with a dollar swap. uh I mean otherwise we'll have to start selling treasuries and buying Juan to be able to sort of uh pay for the food and the things that we need um through the uh you know from whatever means we can get them. So, you know, you've got to help us with that. And so, that was the Brit quid proquo. Okay, we want some dollars. A lot of you got to give us a lot of dollars. Whether it was actually uh lending the money or giving it an actual swap, I don't know. But that was it. They were saying, "We're we're taking a lead. We're out there. We're exposed. We're naked. um you've got to support us with dollars because we haven't we're [clears throat] running out and we're in financial trouble. [snorts] Uh and it it underlines also how Saudi Arabia is taking a very different view. And I think what this means, I mean, um, in in a in a sort of longer perspective is that, um, uh, aside from the UAE, the states, most of the Gulf States, but also led in part by Pakistan, but with China in the background, are sort of moving towards a new um, security architecture for the whole region. region for the Gulf region. And you you recall it was China who first, you know, um brought Iran and Saudi Arabia together in a meeting a few years ago which was the first rapromo. And I suspect um as you know Arachi um the uh foreign minister of Iran has just been in Beijing and has just come back from Beijing. He didn't stop, by the way, in Islamabad, as some people are reporting. He went straight back to Thran. Um, he had talks in China. Um, and he came there from having had talks in Moscow to in St. Petersburg with with Putin. So, I think a new security architecture is coming into being. Now my my prediction but it's personal more than I can give you chapter and verse it will not be possible um to do that with full American participation in that security with any American participation in that sec it's got to be a Gulf security architecture a Gulf security architecture perhaps supported by China and Russia. Um but it has got to be because it's not going to be possible to have um a security architecture that that envisages American bases in the region again. It's um the American bases. I think it's been now reported in the I think it was in the New York Times showed how how damaged the the bases. 13 bases are are pretty well finished. They're they're over. It will cost billions to repair them. I mean, even to put the radar back in in in in Gata in the Alade base there, it it it would it it would cost something a billion dollars and would take 5 years to to reconstruct. So, I don't think, you know, it's going to happen. I think we're going to see a geopolitical shift in the Middle East towards a new security architecture. I think it's going to be led partly by Saudi Arabia and um and um with Russia in in supporting its skeleton has been there for some time because you've seen there've been joint naval exercises China, Russia um taking place for some time in the Gulf with Iran and India too. And I think we're going to see uh a a security architecture take place which doesn't mean it's hostile to the United States but it will just be without the United States direct involvement. I mean [clears throat] not I mean it as I say it will not be intended to be inoposition or antagonistic but it would prefer to have a security architecture that has no American direct security involvement. >> And who who do you think will lead that in the Gulf? Will it be Saudi? >> Yes, Saudi. Yeah, >> Saudi and Qatar is moving that way too and Oman. Oman of course has a a sort of very close relationship both with Iran and with Russia and I think the Russians are playing an important part in this too and I think this is why this is the second reason why I don't think you know why why operation freedom suddenly stopped and collapsed because the Chinese said something very fierce very strong to to Trump. It was hidden in the statement o of ambassador fu who's now head of the UN security council. He's president of the security council. It's a rotating thing and it first from 1 of May China is president's security council. He gave a speech uh at the security council and he said effectively now this is my words but this is my paraphrase of it. Um Mr. Trump the road to Beijing passes through Homos. If you do not settle the Homus issue were this visit to go ahead. He put in brackets and it was rather deeper inside the thing. It said were the visit your visit to go ahead. You may expect the question of the illegitimate war with Iran will be the main topic, the top of the agenda when you arrive in Beijing. And that was a very tough statement uh to Mr. Trump. And I I think that we if we are in a hiatus, I don't know for sure, but if we're in a hiatus, part of that is because I think um uh President Trump is considering, you know, the the time till he goes to China is now days. It's next Friday, right? So I mean has he got time to do another round of war with Iran? I mean and have it concluded before he goes to China. I mean that's a question. I don't have an answer to that because he still said and this is where you can never predict because he said in his statement yesterday Iran has 48 hours to agree to what they've already agreed. [laughter] So as if you know if if they've already agreed those points that America made and were reported by Axius and of course that they're nonsense. They were never agreed by by Iran and Iran said no way we completely reject those. We have made our points that was the 12point plan that they gave to the United States and said that's that's what we are prepared to negotiate. And Trump at the time said that seems a reasonable basis for negotiation but now says it's not acceptable. So you know time is getting getting short I think. So >> will he will he take some military action before going? I I it's possible but my feeling is time is so short and it's so important the visit for him. I mean, China and trade and that the financial aspect and as you rightly said, you know, the the the financial relationship with China, China has the cards, [clears throat] knows it has the cards and it is not going to be easy for America um to play against their their hand. So if if you look at the imports from China in 2022, China was the number one import source with say 537 billion. Today it's dropped if you just look January February it's 50% of what it was in January February of 2022 area. So it's, you know, I always say that fighting with China is like two Si Siamese twins fighting and and so if you look at the drop in imports, China's gone from being number one to number three. Mexico and Canada now number one and number two, but it's still, you know, 350 plus billion dollars. It's extraordinary interdependency and and so yeah, [clears throat] >> but they've been cutting it every month. They've been reducing the exports to the United States at the same time that the global exports have been surging >> yes to the to Asia to the European Union they've gone up by about 13% at the same time they have dropped by many% um to the United States. So the Chinese have more moved more firmly towards a sort of self-sufficiency stance. Um and partly this is the result of the trade war because they've learned I mean they watched what's happened to Russia and they saw the sanctioning of Russia and they saw that the only answer to to to being sanctioned in the way Russia was um from you know from that period when the assets were frozen from that period onwards um China has decided to move much more towards um self-sufficiency. So they do depend on America for some things like aircraft and so on but it is much less and they are much less dependent on uh generally uh on on oil. They've been making massive changes uh in their sort of take up of um other forms of energy sources. And I just point out because I was in China um in December and I was astonished. I I was talking to some industrialists. He owns many factories in China, not just a a few. He's a big um economic player, very clever, very bright. And um he he said he said very clearly uh you know first of all you know we have played AI much more cleverly than you in the west >> much more cleverly we've used it at the factory floor it was a sort of simple AI that is closer to automation and robotics and you know big big data AI but he said look I have all these [clears throat] factories Take one for example. If last year's I employed 2,000 men at the beginning of this year, now it's down to 200. And my prices and the competitiveness has dropped. Overall, our price level for manufacturing goods is dropped 2%. And I said, "Oh my god, you know, when you say that, we are in real trouble because this is uh you know, we're reaching um that point of when two nations are sort of trying to trying to to deal uh with each other." And he said, "Look, you know, is you just have to understand a gigabyte of electricity in in in China for AI or for other technological things is 16th of the price in the United States." And I said, "But you, you know, that means you we, you know, we'd have to see the dollar devalued by about 140% to equal that up." and he said yes I mean this is one of those moments um that need to be managed very carefully in my view and that's what I told him you know this is you know you this is a challenge to the United States and to Europe I mean you know we're just not competitive with what you have just done in this period and we have to deal with this in a very mature way because you know this is uh one of those um I I forget the term but you know when one state is moving ahead and one changing that their their periods that that that particular moment um but we're in that moment and we need to be very careful o of that so China is is is sort of moving that way but not in a it's definitely trying not to be very disruptive. So all these little things I'm saying are are sort of introduced low-key put out there. China is not trying to induce a market collapse. It's not in their interest. They don't want that. They want something but they want it to be understood. you know that China is in a position where it needs to be taken seriously and not just be the subject of sort of endless propaganda which is you know most of it is baseless and to to find a way of finding some sort of harmony back into their favorite word back into [laughter] into political relations. So my guess is that the big footprint data centers are very much designed in the United States to implement programmable money and control because if trade wars are not going to solve the imbalance problem and we've had 50 years of buying popular support in the United States with fiscal larges. you know, the way to change that is with financial repression, and that requires enormous amounts of data. We're looking at um the US struggling to move off of its model, and of course, it's going the wrong way. And um and you're right, if you look at the AI in the United States, it's not being primarily engineered to produce productivity. It's being engineered to keep the stock market levitated and the population under control. >> Uh, absolutely. And this is what I mean I was there at a time there was a big AI conference taking place in Beijing when I was there with Huahei and all these experts and I'm not a I'm not a technical expert but but the message and this is what this man said to me and he said look your your your AI in the west is going to crash and burn because you I mean the cost the capital cost the capex is unimaginable on this >> and there's not going to be the revenues to support it. It's not >> and there's not the energy. >> Not the energy, >> right? We don't have the energy. >> Not the energy. That's when he mentioned, you know, we have energy at one six of the price if you can get it in the west, but we have it at one sixth of the price. But we're not in that game of trying to do that. we are trying to do a very factory floor structure of AI that we make ourselves competitive and it's um all about productivity and you don't have the manufacturing to do that anyway. I mean I'm talking about Europe as well as America. You just don't you're not geared to that. We're not in Europe not at all geared to that. And he said, "So what you have?" And he said, "Of course, you know, your AI was basically derived from military appropriations from Afghanistan, from Iraq, um trying to um impute intent to people and that's what's attracted government. How do we impute intent of people to be in opposition to us? We want that so that we can control things much better. Control the money and control them. And it is really a a a very repressive it is um not only just a repressive but it's it's it's more more than that. It is a a deeply sinister approach which is about uh controlling and and also in in in Europe and I'm talking because I see it. I've got children who are leaving school and things like that. I mean, it's going to decimate in Europe the middle class jobs. And so, where's going to be all this extra consumption coming from if the middle class are decimated? Because the other 80% below them are already decimated and barely sort of survive. So we have this huge structural uh uh if you like imbalance huge structural contradictions in in in in in our economies and um so uh you know the Chinese are saying well I mean what they're going to do is going to be I mean further on it's not going to be deliberate but quite clearly AI is going to go in Europe anyway open source course and we're not going to have to have reliance and paying huge rents to Microsoft and Amazon because we'll be able to get it through some source on our ordinary laptops and do you know uh homemade AI and so that whole project will collapse but in the process it will take down many jobs in in lawyer firms and in other areas it will take down a lot of jobs in in in it already is taking many many jobs in in Europe. >> So this is why saying you know this thing I'm sure China will be blamed but actually they have done nothing to really rock the boat. I mean what they've done in terms of those um uh if you like teapot refineries and saying anyone who you know exceeds to Chinese I mean this is part of the negotiations with with Trump when it comes he's they're they're putting some you know they're getting leverage uh for these negotiations. It's not an attempt to bring down the American economy, but it is an attempt to say to Americans, you know, you have to think very seriously about whether your objectives are possible. You know, can you win this war like this? >> So, so the US has had a model where it can use the subsidy coming from the dollar reserve system to, as you said, you know, do the things you're describing in a way that dramatically reduces productivity. and you use more and more capital force or more and more military force. And traditionally, the way they've won the kind of war that they're in in the Ukraine and Iran, they don't need to win it. They just need to outspend for longer in a way that drains the competition. And [clears throat] the problem is that depends on being able to amass this incredible amount of capital. And if you look at what's happening in the US bond market, the bond market's signaling maybe you're not going to get away with it this time. >> They're not going to get away with it because something has completely changed it. And what is can change what has changed it is asymmetrical war and and if you like trench warfare has turned into technical trench warfare. I mean drones and other elements. And so you have uh you know Iran producing missiles uh uh for for $500 um uh up against missiles of the United States at $40 million. the the uh it's the the ability the o old way of war of America of outspending its rivals which it did in the case of Russia and therefore which it sought to repeat has just been destroyed in Iran. And I think what we will see also um is um uh uh that and this is my prediction that the Russians have been very much um interested in the Iran war and are looking to their um changing perhaps looking it's a debate that's ongoing but looking to change their posture in terms of the lessons learned from the asymmetrical war that the future of that is that they don't have to outspan outspend the United States again. Uh the trouble is America outspends itself in in in these wars, but they don't have to outspend it. So this is a huge strategic if you like uh uh uh I think uh shift taking place in the way in which America thinks about war and the old way of thinking the old way of fighting a war with expensive aircraft, expensive ships, expensive everything against states like Iran which have done it on a fraction of the price changes because the technologies there. You take apart a a a Russian a Russian drone and you'll find bits of opensource technology, technology from China, from Europe and they've reassembled it. Sometimes it starts off in a garage and ends up being taken on by the Russian state and becoming a a real project. But, you know, this is how this is the change that's taken place. >> It's the it's interesting. I was at a briefing in 1989 at on the uh in the secretary of defense's dining room. He was giving a a briefing for the big industrialists on the budget that year. And there was a young entrepreneur who was very software savvy and understood what was coming with drones and tried to warn them all that um you know that the footprint was going to change dramatically as you've just described. And everybody at the table froze because they clearly, you know, what what they were thinking, you could see the bubble over the head, is he doesn't understand the goal here is to keep the stock market up. It's not to have an economic. >> Precisely. Yeah. [laughter] Close. Very close. >> Okay. So, several other things I want to ask you about. There was a magical moment. I think one of the most um important things I've ever seen in discussions this year was at the end of your interview with Tucker Carlson, which was excellent, you talked about the possibility of America finally having to change its economic model. And in fact, when the interview was over, Tucker then added a section where he said, "I want you to go back and listen to what Alistair said again because this is so important." So maybe if you could just describe, I don't know if you remember that moment in the interview, but if you could describe what you said because I thought, you know, this is what has to happen and and you described it very very elegantly. Well, what I was trying to say is that we are really at a hinge moment because um uh the contradictions in our economic systems have become so great that there is no political answer to them. In what I mean is that um uh our economies uh have been uh turned towards a financialization insider trading um structure um whereby you make money or you can make money in half an hour on the having an insider information on the market. We've seen this happening just yesterday with the um futures in the oil market. uh you know 900 million being shorted on the markets uh much more easily than in making anything on the real market real economy. The real economy has been ignored and it's the real economy that provides jobs to people pro provides security provides if you like um a well-being um ability people to be able to afford housing to be able to afford medical insurance all these things that sector that 80% has been sinking and sinking. I live in Italy and since Italy joined the euro, I think it was 96, I may be wrong on the date exactly, um there has been no increase in real wages since 96. And you know, people are keep saying, you know, uh the money runs out by week three in a month, we've run out of of cash. But the real problem here is the fact that here in just take example in Europe but it's more widely there's no answer. There's no political bridge out of this. You all the European Union has carefully created centrist parties putting together little bits of this and that and calling them a centrist party which obeys Brussels um uh autocracy. Um and so you know for the young people who are becoming more and more frustrated you know what's the alternative? You vote and you vote for Tweedle D or Tweedle B. You get the same whichever you vote for. Um if you protest, you are met by these new high powered um water cannon and special um noise um uh mechanisms to dis defeat you mentally. I mean, they're vicious. At one point recently, France put something like 50,000 um CRS um the anti- riot people on the street um against protesters. 50,000. I mean this is an army you know army against the people in in this way. So if you can't if voting doesn't work there's no path to a political bridge out of the dilemma that people are in protest is ignored. Then the only thing you can do is you can turn to one form or another of revolution. and that this is coming I believe in in in Europe because the the structural contradictions and that their structural contradictions are not just economic but they're also a structural contradictions which is eliminating um the element of what it is to be human. It's a direct and when you talked about you know what the tech brothers are are planning for if you like controlling and controlling the economy and controlling the state. Um this is um this is what we're talking about. It's anti-vilizational. It's about rendering a person um disembedding them from sovereign the idea of sovereignty of of being part of a nation of being part of a church of being part of a family. taking them and stripping of them of all that and becoming um units and units that can be compelled um by digital means or other means um uh to keep the whole machine that running that provides more and more wealth to a smaller and smaller proportion. Uh and this will blow up I think at some point in our faces. And what I said at the end of Tucker uh was um that yes I'm what I'm saying is quite dark but I'm quite positive about it because in the sense I think we have been in the grips of a nihilism in Europe a postmodernism a postmodern nihilism where everything you know is negative and pushing us you know and that has destroyed any sort of civilizational um energy, civilizational strength and and the consequences o of that is that we have to go through cathosis, constructive destruction. We have to accept we're going to have a tough time. It's going to be unpleasant. It may be economically very unpleasant because that's what's going to happen anyway probably. But we have to try and then find the green shoots and tend the green shoots that are going to allow us to sort of uh find the upward if you like um impulses of civilization again European civilization, American civilization. So um one of the things that we've spent many years focused on is what is that pathway through you know to civilization and and preserving the best of western civilization and uh we've started a program called young builders which is the basis of extraordinary optimism on my part and the ciler team because what we've discovered is that there's a this started Alistister because our subscribers said I don't want send my children to these schools where they waste, you know, tremendous amounts of money and time learning what they need to know to be successful. Can you can you create something? And so we we did a first class not knowing, you know, the the goal was to prove to ourselves that we could use our work and knowledge to significantly improve their chances of of succeeding in this world, whether it's building families or building businesses. And um after the first course, which is just coming to a close, we're convinced or it's coming to a close in the fall, that this can work. And so we're taking applications for a second course. We're going to have a wonderful event in Italy. And I'm hoping I finally get to meet you in person. I'm very much looking forward to that. But what what I found is that these young people um you you have a portion of young people who are ready to face and take on that catharsis and they have the skills and the training to do it. They um you know they really can lead us through and so we're very focused on getting behind them and helping that. But maybe if you could say a few things about because I know you speak to young people where you think that pathway is if if we want to lead through this catharsis how do we find that pathway? >> I think the first stage is basically to understand that this and this may not be sort of a very welcome thing to say but to say uh we are already in this war. I mean this is this is a something of a civil war that is underway and that there are forces engaged in in this and uh it reflects a contradiction deep structural contradiction that is both if you like at a metaphysical level at a level of morality at a level of ethics as well as at the economic level and that we have uh really to understand that we there is a real attempt to um if you like to destroy the basis of what it is to be human. What is it means to be human? that element which is deeply tied up with civilization of course with in many cases for many people with their religion or their religious beliefs but the most important thing is to get back the energy that a civilization has energy [clears throat] and has excitement and about it and one of the most important things that I've seen in this last period and it's not well understood But um watching what's been happening in in Iran, Iran of a month ago no longer exists. There is a new Iran particularly amongst the young and uh at the leadership too and they know they're going to go through a a hard time. But there is real excitement and energy and palpable energy amongst the young. Every night they are out in the street waving flags talking about how to reignite you know the values of the revolution. the values of the revolution which were about the struggle um the struggle the fight against um oppression against repression. The struggle for taking care of the community and the dispossessed. the struggle, if you like, to put values back into um to reinforce the narratives of myth and story which underpin the moral if you like the moral architecture of a society that it can't just be the sort of the selfish gene as Anra was talking about it has to be something of that you are ready to to a certain extent uh to sacrifice yourself in the interests of of a people or a community or uh your idea of of what you stand for. What is the vision of Iran for the future? And that's something that they're talking about. And it I was in Iran just before uh the the first uh war if you like a few months ago. And this was you know the main talk was how do you get those values to if you like bring them into the future for young people today in this technological world. It's not you know 79. It's a new world. Technology is here. How do young people today if you like feel those values and how do we express them and take them forward and they've deepened in in contemplating about that. I had some long discussions with senior leadership about saying you can't just go back to Kerbala and you can't say well you know Kerbal is our message because you know you got to you know what does that mean to an 18year-old boy or girl who's more interested in the shoes she's wearing or or the jacket she's got on and is it the latest design because that's what Iran is like as much as China. I mean every young people today want to wear designer clothes and wear designer shoes you know that's fine it doesn't it you can still find it and you see the watch the videos great amadas of young women guns on their shoulder marching through with their flag young children all and when um President Trump threatened this to end their civilization what happened. They all went out and they stood on the bridges. They stood and sort of made a a human shield around their power stations and said, "Come and get us if you want. We're here. We're ready to sacrifice." I mean, that was, you know, the the the sense of feeling of that is is palpable. You can just see the energy. And our question is how do we find the way to get that energy back into I believe young people today um who are frustrated and who are have become negative because we live in a in a nehistic world at the moment a neistic world dominated by a rather crass materialism and they want something more. They want to feel right, >> you know, what's the point? Why am I what what what is the point of being a a an Italian? What is the vision of it? What does it mean to be Italian today? What does it mean to be American today? How do we turn that into something that has meaning and purpose? >> So, one of the ways this is coming to a head in America is um I'm sure you haven't seen the latest statistics. We have one campaign between Congress Thomas Massie in his primary. He's been regularly against the war and the war machine and refused to vote foreign aid for Israel. And um he's now he he does not take money from Apac, but his um his the the his primary opponent on the Republican side has now gotten $9 million from Apac. It's quite it's quite extraordinary to watch. And you know, you're seeing an enormous rejection by the young people of the Zionist element in American politics. But um but that is coming to a head. We just covered a story on money and markets. Israel is upping the propaganda budget in the United States from 150 million to 750 million. you know, and you can see this escalation of the young people rejecting and the Zionist pushing back and um you know, it has not come to a head yet, but it is clearly on its way and and that's part of rejecting the this m materialist vision because the you know in the United States, this is why I love your coverage. We are watching so much of the coverage of the war coming out of the White House is really designed to facilitate the insider trading. It has nothing to do with the conduct of the war. Right. >> Yeah. Yeah. Totally. I mean this is it's just keeping markets uh elevated at a critical time before midterms. of course um because that I mean all of his team is telling him you've got to sort of transfer and concentrate on you know the midterms now and and try and because your approval rating is down in in the depths what happens to Massie is going to be a huge I mean a huge signal >> it's going to be very tight as I understand it very tight indeed because he's had this huge amount spent against him. Um um but who knows we will I think the outcome of that even if he loses I mean it has been a signal the issue has been raised the flag has gone up >> and so I think this is really important and I think one of the things that needs to be un understood and sort of explained and unfolded is of course some of the roots to this because you know the roots are not easy to understand. We're dealing with an escatological problem as much as anything else. It's a way of understanding I I some years ago I I I I wrote a piece saying there's no point in trying to understand what's happening in the Middle East if you look at it through secular rationalist thinking. You have to understand that there's a messianic and and an embrace of um uh Armageddon as the uh solution to redemption uh in Israel amongst a majority of it, however you define it, but most Israelis now support that. It shifted a lot over this period. And so suggesting to Israelis, oh why don't you restrain your calls for action against Iran doesn't make sense because actually you say well you know it's not in your best interest cuz you could lose American support if you do that or you you know that uh you're missing the point these people and I've heard Modric say this you know seven years ago he said to complete our project greater Israel forcing redemption by military seizing of territory. We need a big crisis or a big war. We want a big war, >> right? >> So if if they're not frightened of Anagdon, in fact, welcome it. You know, you're going there and saying, you know, be careful, you know, may not be in America and Europe's interest for you to do, you know, to pursue the war against Iran. Well, this is their last chance to try and bring about redemption through a forced um outcome. There's an ideological military component to this and then there is also the sort of messianic esqueological component to this which is about uh creating reaching uh um a a redemption of of of some sort and you have to understand it. And when I said we are in a war, there is an element understanding that that these profound impulses. It's not just economics, not just material. There are other impulses and other structures and interests above the ones that we normally see. And all I'm saying is that you have to see them and you have to understand them and then one has to work out um what is the right way of uh moving ahead. >> So at conflicts forum I always check into your Substack because you will pick out coverage from the Middle East including Israel and translate it and provide these um excerpts. And you just had one from I believe he's a military officer talking about the deterioration of the IDF into barbarism. And I was very struck by the, you know, a military man saying we can't have a disciplined force if we deteriorate into this form of barbarism. It was very interesting. But you got the feeling of this um of this greater battle that you're talking about. And these are done I I just quickly say by uh Ashley my wife I mean who works we work together and she does this I mean she lived in Israel as I did for a number of years and was at the Hebrew University briefly. So um so she knows who's who and why they're talking as they talk. This is essential. I mean, you can just listen read, you know, the the the Hebrew press, but if you don't know who is pro- Netanyahu, who is against who's on which side, as she does, it doesn't so she chooses it. And she said to me the other day, you know, every time I do this, I mean, people are saying this cannot, you know, we have the head of the defense force saying the military is exploding. It's crashing. He went to the cabinet meeting and said, "I want to put up 10 red lights. We can't go on as we're going on." What did he mean? And what he meant was this that um uh when Israel was first founded um Benurian um said look we are a small people on a small territory and the only way we can manage this is to have a small professional army and rely on reserveists. We can't field a big standing army and take on the world. It's not possible. So this is how we have to do it. And Netanyahu broke this pattern after the 7th of October. He bust that and said, "No, we're going to take, you know, Syria. We're going to take Lebanon, part of Lebanon. We are going to take the West Bank and we are going to force the issue of greater Israel militarily across it and Iran being the major prize in in this to set the an Israeli hedgemony across across the region. And what these military officers are saying one way or another um is is they're saying listen if you wanted to do this we would need six or seven IDFs not one six or seven it's just we it's just the whole structure is breaking down and and actually ash said to me the then she said you know I feel embarrassed because I feel people will start to think that I look for these sort of statements about the morale breakdown in the army and this and she said and she says you know I don't they just come shouting at me from from my reading of this there is a huge crisis existential crisis become and it's become more profound because you know um 93% of Israelis expected and wanted you know, the United States to do the job of destroying Iran, destroying it completely as a functioning state, not just mowing the lawn in Iran, but destroying it. And and so these all have been coming out the these statements. It's very important. Israel is at a a crucial point. I'm and they may um disrupt um if you like what's happening in the Middle East. I wouldn't, you know, I would not at all put it past Iran to force a a further round of conflict uh in Iran by a force false flag um um event or by just extreme pressure on the White House uh through um uh the big donors and the Israeli link, the Israeli first uh elements. in the United States. So I mean that is because Netanyahu is desperate. I mean the people there are saying to Netanyahu very plainly and they're saying to him, "Look, you promised us you promised us a a great victory. Where is it? It hasn't happened. You achieved none of the goals you wanted in Iran. Nothing has happened. The nuclear program has not been destroyed. The missile program has not been destroyed. There was no uprising in Iran. Even the Israeli intelligence admit it probably was never in prospect. It is not. >> And so they're saying in Gaza, you have failed. Look, Hamas is still there. It's still largely controlling Gaza. In in Lebanon, you are being defeated. the the Hezbollah using new drones um fiber optic control drones. It's devastating the Israelis and they are fearful that they're going to have to withdraw in humiliation from the south of Lebanon. So all of this elections are coming up uh in in Israel and if Netanyahu loses those elections, there is a real possibility that he goes to jail because of the criminal charges against him and those have not been resolved yet. He hasn't got a pardon from the president and those charges are still continuing. Whether there will be a solution is possible but if not um he will have to because he's exemption from prison from the previous charges relies on him being prime minister. If he ceases to be prime minister then he can be um sent to prison. So it's existential for him. >> So I think the message is catharsis ahead. [laughter] Yeah. Yeah. I think unfortunately it's baked in. It is baked in. >> I mean unfortunately because it's going to be economically um you know terrible for for us in Europe. I mean for everyone but in Europe it'll be worse than the most and people are not ready. They haven't been prepared at all. they're sort of continuing, you know, cabaret time goes on and and suddenly the music will stop and it will be it will be a shock. >> Yeah, it will be a shock. I you know, I live half the year in the Netherlands, but I'm in Pennsylvania. I'm in the States now. I will say this, I just heard a 100 high schooler and grade schoolers play Bach last night. So, it was very inspiring. And um so there so there is some civilization going on, but you're right. Most people have no idea what's coming. None. It's shocking. Anyway, but Alistister, if if we don't know what's coming, it it has not because you haven't warned us. And so I cannot thank you enough for your work. You you really help us see the full complexity of what's going on in the Middle East. I want to recommend to everyone that they check out conflicts forum Substack. It's an invaluable source and you post many of your interviews there. We'll post this and uh I I just want to thank you again for your work. Thank you for joining us on the CIA report. Any last words? >> No, just it's been pleasure to join you tonight. >> Okay, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining us on the Celer Report. Catharsis ahead. Get ready. Get ready. Get ready. [music] >> Heat. Heat.
