We had all these books um about um gravity. And obsession with it. But the really powerful forces in the universe are and were and always will be the electro magnetic ones which are 10 followed by 35 zeros stronger and more important than gravitation. So, >> [clears throat] >> what was really going on here was that we had a kind of extension of the pre-Copernican worldview. Because we live on a rocky planet and because we are in physical bodies made of matter that's made of atoms. And because we fall back to Earth if we jump up. Um because we're pulled back by something called the force of gravity. Which is a popular phrase. Then we neglected all the really important stuff that's going on in the cosmos itself. So, the attitude was oh the hell with the universe. Let's just focus on um the the the ground under our feet. And and this is no way to understand the universe. But then they didn't want to understand the universe. Really. They wanted to be cozy and comfortable and stay within this incredibly narrow worldview. That um was entirely based upon the circumstances of our own planet. So, although after a few inconvenient things like Giordano Bruno in 1600 having been burnt at the stake for saying that the Earth went round the Sun. Although there were those little accidents along the way. The fact is that um everybody was forced to admit okay okay okay the Earth goes around the Sun. We'll we'll we'll agree to that part of it. But what we won't agree to is the underlying psychological conviction that we are the only ones. And especially we are the only ones who matter. That and and this is where you get all these weird weird people, some of whom are distinguished so-called professors and whatever, saying we're alone in the universe. >> [clears throat] >> And um you have to be totally insane to think that we're alone in the universe. But many of them were totally insane and they got all the headlines and and they were treated with great reverence cuz they were ever so distinctive and distinguished, weren't they? And so this is the still the Copern- pre-Copernican worldview gripping their minds even though they'd they'd given way on the actual physical act of the Earth going around the Sun and they said, "Okay, okay." Reluctantly they all agreed to that. But they still believe that the Earth is the center of the universe in other respects. And that means that our science is an Earth-based science which is useless for understanding the universe.
