Because, you know, my my mantra has been your energy system and your financial systems are tied. Because the financial [snorts] system is always a mirror of the physics of your energy system. If you're dealing with a closed system of of energy, in other words, you're you're dealing with non-renewable energy resources, that's the kind of financial system you'll have. And you can play havoc and and make a lot of money as we've seen under the central bank model. The problem is if you go to a system of energy that is more or less open, and here here's the key part of it. Easy, more or less easy to engineer, your financial system will follow suit, and you're you're dealing with a system that potentially bankers cannot control. They cannot manipulate it. Right. This is the problem they've always had. So, what has been the delay in bringing out this type of energy, be it fusion energy or zero-point energy or what have you? What what has been the problem? Well, in in Babylon's Banksters, uh in that book, I argued and and I still believe this, that we had that kind of system of energy with Tesla's wireless power system. And the story is always told that J.P. Morgan put the end to that system because he complained he couldn't meter it and thus make any money from it. Well, well, that's a bunch of poppycock. Because J.P. Morgan stood to make a fortune from the licensing fees that and royalties that he would have had sponsoring Tesla as as his financial backer. So, why did he pull the plug? He pulled the plug, in my opinion, because they realized once they understood how simple Tesla's system really was, that anybody with a with a junior higher high school degree and education in physics, anybody could engineer a similar system. >> Right. And get out of control. >> And the the other problem was that Tesla slowly began to disclose that his system could be a very powerful weapon. >> Mhm. >> So, if you have the ability to engineer a simple system and turn it into a very powerful weapon, you've got a proliferation problem. So, they they could not bring this system out until they had a surveillance grid adequate to the task of tracking everybody and making sure that they're not buying supplies to build a system like that. >> Right. >> Or in a Think of Think of the Iran cannot get a nuclear weapon problem. And multiply that by every garage in America with a kid in junior high or high school that is taking a degree in electronics or what have you and wants to play around with those types of systems. That's a proliferation nightmare. This is why they stopped it. >> Um and and we see the oil price dropping dramatically despite that. Now, there rumors are there huge shorts in the market, but something doesn't make sense. In other words, if you look at the conduct of this war, somebody feels like they don't need oil. >> And let's add to that something else that is happening in this country in in the United States particularly with all of these artificial intelligence data centers that they're trying to build out. More and more now the opposition to artificial intelligence centers is happening at a local level when people find out the energy costs. >> Right. >> So what's happening where I'm at is that many of these companies that want to build data centers around my region are telling the state we'll build our own power supply and we will not be on your power grid at all and therefore your your energy prices for the average consumer will stay the same. Now I strongly suspect that that's poppycock because they are going to have to do something with that excess power so why not plug it into the grid? >> Right. >> And sell it. >> Right. >> The key thing here is as you know these data centers as you've put it several times use more energy than a panzer division. >> [laughter] >> And if that's the case and they're going to build out their own powers uh supply that tells me they've got some sort of trick up their sleeve for that power. >> Right. >> Whether it's a local tiny thorium reactor or fusion power or something even more exotic I don't know. But I think you're absolutely correct. The the AI data centers are the the key here to telling us that they keep telling us the current power grid is inadequate to to power these things. Well then why are we building them? Well they're building them and they've let the cat out of the bag now. We're we've got our own power sources and we're going to use them to build these data centers to keep surveillance and tabs on everybody else. That's exactly what's going on. They've got something up their sleeve.
