And there's almost always a trigger. And the list that they gave was uh economic decline. So, that can be also the like price increases, moral shock, or new political opportunity. So, I'm thinking of the Epstein Epstein release. Or in this case, the political opportunity could be the death of Stalin like in the in the past. Um divided elites or delete if defections. >> Mhm. >> And um perhaps you can count Robert Kennedy under that a little bit. I'm not sure. And uh free spaces to meet, often in churches. >> Yes. >> And when I was thinking about these, then I think for at least a decade or longer, we already have very fertile soil for the start of a revolution. Would that be your assessment as well? >> Well, yes, but with a with a very large caveat. Uh and that would be that in Poland's case, this is this is why we have to be careful because what we're what we're having to do is translate something from from Polish literally into into Western European and American. Because in Poland's case, you're dealing with a totalitarian state. The problem in the West is we're dealing not only with an increasingly totalitarian state, but that state in turn is submissive to for want of a better expression, an extraterritorial international state that we can call global only globalism, deep state, whatever you want to call I call it the Nazi international because they're a bunch of fascists. But you're you're looking at all of these independent governments, quasi-independent governments that are answering to an ideology that is funded and backed by people embedded very deeply in in the networks of power in the West. That's the second problem. The third problem is that much of the policy that is being set culturally in the West is being run not by government but by think tanks, corporations, in other words, non-state actors. So, in Poland, they had an easy target. That was the government. In the West, our target is is multifolds. It's government, it's these deep deep state interests or globalist interests or whatever you want to call them, and then finally you have have these corporations pushing those kinds of ideological agendas. So, we've got a threefold target, whereas Poland only had one. So, that's my big caveat, that that But nonetheless, I think that that what the Poles did and how they addressed their problems with the government is easily adaptable to those three targets in in the West.
