Two questions for you, Bud. One of the things you said when uh when you were presenting the bill to the committee in in the legislature in the last session, you said, "You don't wait uh when you're building a house, you don't wait until the first floor is done before you put up the foundation." And and our fundamental constitutional rights are the foundation. You got to put that in place first. And I thought that was an excellent way of describing the importance of getting guardrails, whether or not you think this could happen, you know, this kind of central control can happen. There's no Certainly can't hurt to put up guardrails. When you talk to some of the other members of the committee or other people in the legislature, why don't they are they just afraid of of upsetting the banks? Why don't they understand that fundamental principle, or do they? >> I I'm not sure that they do, but most of the time, I think what happens most of the time, not all the time, but but most of the time is when you start talking about some of these issues and using verbage that they're not used to, or they don't hear very often, it's like their eyes kind of glaze over, and you don't know how hard the lobbyists have worked their office and worked them before this bill ever got to them. You know, you you you really don't know that. The bank lobby is is a big lobby, and it's pretty powerful. And so you they'll go behind your back or not. That's not a bad way to That's a bad way to say it. They'll They will maneuver around in these offices several times, and they're big donors to campaigns, and but the tendency is if they don't know the verbage, or they've never heard anything about the bill, the tendency is to defer to who they think the experts are. And who they think the experts are are not the people that's testifying in the committee and it's not the representative that's running the bill, it's the bank lobby. That's that's who they consider the experts to be and and and when they don't understand an issue or it's a new issue like this one, they will have a tendency to defer to who they think the expert is and that'd be the bank lobby that they know. >> The heartbreaking thing I just have to mention it but the heartbreaking thing about this is we know that um I mean if you look at who was representing the bank lobby that day, it was people from small and regional banks in Tennessee. You know, but if you look at who owns their stock, it's BlackRock and Wall Street and and unfortunately, what you and I both know is that this kind of uh technology is going to put them all out of business. And so we're there fighting to protect the small banks and the small banks are fighting to give BlackRock what they want and it's a very sad picture. >> It it is indeed um and I don't think I don't think sometimes I was able to convey how dire the consequences are and and what a need to act and to act right now, why that's so important because I don't think we got a lot of time. And it it's imperative on on folks that are running this bill in other states that they get consumed with it because the emergency and the the 11th hour is here and and I don't think we have a lot of time to set these things in place.
