You know, it should you need to find a legislator that will champion your bill. They know the internal processes and it's hard for citizens that don't live it every day in session to understand the processes and the tricks and and how that how there's ways to you know the rules are the rules until they change the rules and the rules are always changing. You you it's not written in stone even if you think this is the process the process can be changed with different votes and stuff. So you really need a legislator that's willing to be on board with you, be educated and and and it and agrees with you and then take the lead on it. And and that um you have to build those relationships and I I I can't stress that enough. And you want to build those relationships not during session while they're busy voting on bills. Um during the summer a lot of legislatures are are on break. Like we're we only meet 3 months. Most of them are part-time. There's a lot of campaigning activities. Show up at their events. Uh show up early. Build a relationship with them. Help them set up chairs or um you know, be a be a contact in a community for helping them with parades or something like that and you will get a lot more respect and they will listen to you. There there's nothing worse when someone shows up to with an issue and they have like 4 in of studies that they've done for 20 years and they're like here, pass this bill and it's just like you you have to educate people slowly and when you'll find the right legislator that's on board with your issue and it may not be who you expect. It may not be someone that aligns with you on every other issue, but if if cash is the issue it you know, maybe there's a Democrat that feels strongly about that or maybe you know, maybe there's an independent. You just don't know. You can't make assumptions and um just because someone's against you on another issue doesn't mean that you can't can't connect with them and they won't take a lead and champion a cash bill for you.
