How in the world do do I return to uh you know, being a king in my own castle? How do I get privacy? How do I get privacy again in my home? I've got everything on wires. I don't have Wi-Fi, but you know, I I'm assuming that my neighbor's Wi-Fi can just come on in, right? How do I get privacy at home? >> I I would I would say privacy at home is going to start with your television set. >> I don't I haven't had a TV >> I haven't had a TV since 1984, so >> You're you're you're ahead of the curve. Uh again, going back to Texas, uh Attorney General Ken Paxton filed a lawsuit against the five largest TV manufacturers. Um Samsung, LG, um I can't remember all of them, but the the five largest TV manufacturers representing 80 to 90% of the market share. He filed a lawsuit against them over something called ACR, which stands for automatic content recognition. And this sounds like something out of a out of a uh George Orwell novel. Modern smart TVs, if you buy a smart TV, you bring it home, you connect it to your Wi-Fi so that you can watch streaming uh services directly on your TV set, every half a second, we're talking twice per second, it's going to take a a screenshot of what's displayed on your TV. It's going to send that back to the mothership, LG, uh Samsung, whoever, and they're going to analyze what was on your screen for that half second, and then a half second later, and etc. And what they're looking at is what TV shows are you watching? It may be a streaming show that you're watching, it may be something from over-the-air broadcast, cable. It could be your PS4, your PS5 if you're into gaming. It could be home photos if you have a laptop connected to the screen because it's not going to the source, it's going to what's on the screen. And I have the ability on my on my television to take things from my computer and put it on my TV screen. If I had a smart TV that was connected to the internet, my personal photos, the videos that I shoot on my phone are now being shared with the maker of the TV. They analyze that to find out what are your interest. Whatever you're watching, if you like nature documentaries, if you like World War documentaries, if you like romance rom-coms, whatever it is, they're going to break that down and they're going to sell that information to advertisers that, "Hey, Catherine likes this type of show." And and that goes into a profile.
