What they figured out was several things. Number one, by not attacking the legitimacy of the government, but only the competence or value of particular policy. That was key. So, in other words, you're you you don't have to present yourself as being in opposition to the government. All you're doing is you're questioning a policy. >> Yes. Mhm. >> By questioning the policy, the other tactic is you're trying to show the incompetence of the government in driving the policy, or whoever, you know, whatever corporation or think tank is driving the policy. But then, the third thing that they recognized, and this is a key part of what you're saying, what you're getting at, that they recognized that previous descent efforts had not worked, because the message quit being addressed to the government. You're in in in addressing a policy, what they're really trying to do, while they're pretending to address the government, they're really addressing the people. That's the key. So, in other words, they figured out that descent doesn't work if you're trying to change it from within the system. Okay? That doesn't work. But you're still pretending to do that. All the while, you're simply putting out the message, "This policy is bad. The people administering it are not part of the culture. We understand that this is what you out there want and represent. And we're simply trying to reflect what you guys, you you common everyday polls, want. And we're simply trying to represent that to the government." >> Exactly. >> That's the key. That's the key. So, in other words, if we if we were to do that now, we would quit worrying about whether or not the government's responding. We just keep talking. >> [laughter] >> Yes. >> We just keep talking and letting things grow. And then the the fourth thing that they figured out was they had at some point to to understand that mere mass, mere numbers are not sufficient. You have to have the major, as you put it, the the the defectors, the major sole leaders >> Mhm. >> of of the country involved and part of the movement. So, in other words, let let's go back to that period in Polish history when they're under the boot heel of Stalin's uh Warsaw Pact forces. >> Mhm. >> And you've got you've got Stefan Cardinal Wyszynski, Cardinal Archbishop of Warsaw, who was a national figure and a national hero in Poland. Well, Wyszynski, if you look at his career, he carefully avoided any direct political confrontation of the government. But, once KOR came along and got started up and the movement expanded, >> Mhm. >> he very quietly identified himself with it. And when he started doing it, a lot of other Polish intellectuals came along, too, and started to identify And what happened as a result was you had General Jaruzelski there in Warsaw with all of his hands on all the levers of power, and he was pushing and pulling the levers, and nothing was happening. Because the people were Okay, you're irrelevant. You're incompetent. You don't represent us. So we're ignoring you.
