And then, after that speech and after he dismissed the press, he got back on Air Force One and flew to Offutt Air Force Base in Omas, Nebraska, and I'm from Sioux Falls, South Dakota, by the way. I know exactly what Offutt Air Force Base is . This is the headquarters of all of America's nuclear forces, all of them . Of course? This is a large underground complex at Offutt Air Force Base. And I think: OK, so we've moved from a backup command post to a real command center. What is going on here? Well, it later turned out that on the day of September 11, all of America's strategic nuclear forces were participating in exercises. And I think Webster Tarpley is absolutely right here. Because it was later revealed that someone allegedly made a phone call while Bush was en route to Air Force One and had already boarded, presumably to fly back to Washington, D.C., but they changed course to Barksdale. At some point, someone called the White House switchboard and used code names that only the people responsible for the president's security, the security of America's nuclear forces, and the security of America's spy satellites could know. They were calling all these names to the operator on the White House switchboard, and I'm sure he or she, whoever that operator was, was thinking, "Oh my God, who is this? Who is this unknown person who tells us that the president is next? That's what they say. And they... Because you also write in the book that all these codes are never known to one person. So, they are also distributed among different departments. So if one person calls and has them... That 's right. You have a serious, yes, you have a serious security breach. And this little episode right there says, " Well, if the people involved in the planning..." "... are now themselves under attack, or if someone involved in the planning now turns the operation around to use it not to project American power but against the American government itself , then you have a coup d'état." Yes, exactly. Right. Right. You...what you have is a coup d'état.
