The the ability to to to think in terms of recruitment. Who do we need? Well, we need doctors who are willing to speak out against the vaccine. Oh, well, do you know of any? And and and start that network communication process of oh, well, I heard about this doctor. She's got a a website in Arizona where she talks of and start putting the net that kind of network together. We're seeing something like that happen. I don't know about Holland, but I in this country we're seeing something like that already happening with Zionism. There's now a website an American website where they're tracking AIPAC donations to every single political candidate in the entire country. You know, this is a big country and that's a lot of tracking, you know, to do. But somebody started this website. Well, imagine a similar website for doctors that supported and doctors that did not support COVID. >> Exactly. >> You know, imagine imagine a similar website for teachers who are in favor of boys playing in in women's sports and using women's bathrooms and all the other transgender nuttiness >> [laughter] >> that we have going on in this country. Imagine that. And imagine then on top of that a a decentralized group of people acting locally to challenge all of these policies. >> Mhm. >> We're seeing something else happen in this country that I'm I'm pleased to see, but I'm waiting I'm waiting for that that instant Elsa of of critical mass when people start connecting all these movements say, "Hey, we've got all these little movements about all these little issues. Let's try and get them together somehow And network them together. Well, one of the movements that's happening right now in this country is local opposition to data centers. >> Mhm. >> We're seeing people go into their local city councils or their county councils challenging these data centers and the power usage and so on and so forth. Well, that has happened again spontaneously. So, what I think needs to be done is okay, we've got this going on. Now, let's coordinate all these issues. KOR, if you study the history in Poland, that's what they did.
