Okay, let's go to hey robots. We have again an a horrifying stories this week. Let's let's go with to this is cut right to the chase with the most horrifying story of the week. This is unbelievable. Using >> [laughter] >> using AI makes makes people less likely to admit they don't know something. Oh, God forbid. 2026 AI still hallucinates, gives you wrong answers all the time for a good a good chunk of the time. Nevertheless, from French and Italian universities have found that access to AI advice suppresses critical thinking making people more likely to confidently parrot incorrect information that the bot provided. For humans, the capacity to say I don't know is very important because it represents the recognition of the limits of their own knowledge. But now, with AI, we can get an easier answer to virtually every question. So, we wondered whether this would interfere with the human capacity to say I don't know, to suspend judgment. The title of the academics' paper reveals their findings. AI advice suppresses people's willingness to say I don't know, even when the advice is wrong and accuracy is incentivized. So, it's like, hey, use AI so you never have to say I don't know ever again. >> [laughter] >> That's what's horrifying. But wait, it gets worse. Let me finish this off. Why is it worse than people confidently paralyzing parroting garbage because of this reason. I'm very concerned for children because adults have learned critical thinking. But for children who basically are born with these system, the risk is that they don't even learn basic critical skills. They're born thinking they they know know everything and they never stop that way. >> what's amazing. AI can, you know, when it's wrong, it it can be so confident that it's right. The the way it's it's unbelievable and it's it's just flat dead wrong and you just have to laugh. But if you if you don't have your own framework and know have a good map you're you're toast. Now what I have to tell you is we have I'm I'm very lucky cuz right now Corey Lynn who's got a great website Corey digs is I want to be writing. So she's doing research for and she's an amazing researcher. Amazing. So we've got her checking everything and that's You need you need a human with a great map and a great brain who's checking everything.
