So, China and Russia have spent years preparing for, you know, sort of what the West is doing right now. And and if you look at their energy investments, they're very, very resilient. So, they've made a huge investment in in wind and solar, solar particularly. They've made a huge investment in nuclear for a long time now. So, you know, it's hard to know for sure how they're doing, but certainly they've known the US was planning on doing this. I mean, they they've prepared for this. It's so is Iran. Right. Right. So, so another words, everybody knows the Iran war is Iran war is causing a lot of pain. Right. >> And the contest is, well, who can put up with the pain longest? And the US calculation was, well, it's going to hurt China and Iran a lot worse than it's hurt uh hurting us. Incorrect. China is fine, as we've seen. Now, we're getting reports from intelligence agencies in the US that surprise, Iran has a lot more weapons than we thought. We didn't we didn't burn through as many of their weapons as we thought. And conversely, they destroyed a lot more of our munitions, a lot more of our bases, a lot more of our aircraft than anybody ever imagined. Multiples of the of the figures that were reported. China has known since Wesley Clark, at least, at a minimum, exactly what was going to happen. If there's one thing we know about the Chinese, they plan. They're the most unbelievable planners. Yes, they do. The secret society The only people I know who plan as much as the Chinese are the secret societies. Or the Rothschilds, who plan centuries ahead. Yeah. Now, I can't imagine there aren't equivalents in the West doing the same thing. There are. So, the question is but they're just bad at it. Well, or or do they want to just plunder the West? Is this just COVID 2.0? Hey, do they just want to maybe they maybe this is the plan. They just want to plunder the West. Right. Right. That's kind of that's kind of where I come out on that one. Right. You know, when when the US government and you know, based on what the intelligence agencies are saying and doing, you know, does something that looks stupid usually in my experience it's not stupid.
