So, let me uh bring up one question. Dennis, when we uh meet with state legislators, it's we are able to explain, I think, pretty quickly. You know, we take a couple of videos of the central bankers telling you what they're planning on doing. And we're able to communicate the risk uh we're we're able to educate and communicate the risk of these things pretty pretty quickly, pretty clearly. Now, of course, what happens is you leave and they get busy on something else. And what you see is most of the state legislators spend most most of the good ones who are fighting for freedom spend most of their their time trying to stop crazy things from happening instead of getting proactive legislation through. Here's Here's the question. How do we get a a focused group of leadership in the state legislators realizing that it's urgent to do something to put up these guardrails now before this market grows. And how do we keep them focused? As a tactical matter, how do we do this? >> The short answer is staff. Make sure you that any meeting that you have, you should ask that staff members be in a meeting or a staff [clears throat] member be in a meeting. And follow up with the staff member and keep in touch with the staff member. Um >> [clears throat] >> because that relationship there is really important. Now, it doesn't mean that you give up on the representative. Uh people need a structured series of messages in order to um the frequent communication is important. It doesn't have to be detailed. Matter of fact, it shouldn't be detailed. It should just be very quick, concise messages, but the overall the overarching uh thematics have to go back to freedom because this is where people you know the the fundamental thing about being a representative you you take at every level you take an oath to defend the Constitution of the United States and when people are just starting they know to take that very seriously some lose their way after a while but to ground the communications with the member in in those principles to communicate concisely facts that can be held easily to have a staff member who's a backup that you keep communicating with and to have a follow-up communications including you know by whether it's email snail mail or through the through the members and yeah I mean that's that's that's the beginning of the process there is no there's no real shortcut to it and it's it is time consuming but the most effective people who who help create change on behalf of organizations are present and they they keep knocking on the door
