Let's get into what our first story >> Okay. >> about Flock and its cameras. Flock Flock cameras screw up swarm an innocent man armed an innocent man with armed police. So, this guy, he's an automotive journalist named Joel Feder, was suddenly swarmed by armed cops. He was test driving a Range Rover with his wife in Minnesota. Officers said that they'd been tracking him for days using Flock's AI integrated cameras, which had tagged his car as stolen. Erroneously, as it turns out, very erroneously, as it turns out. We'll see how bad that is in a minute. The cops said the license plate on Feder's Range Rover had been reported stolen by a dealership in Los Angeles. One officer prevented uh presented photos taken by the cameras in the Flock app showing his SUV plate number 3410DTM. Okay? Confirming that they had the right car, at least according to Flock. But, when Feder got the company on on the on the phone, they say it's the he the automaker, I think it's the dealer that rented him the Range Rover. They said the they they they reported stolen, not this number, 3410 DTM, but rather 34 03 DTM. So, you see the difference is in the two middle digits. Okay? On New Jersey plates, the middle number, that two-digit middle number, is written smaller than the others. And for whatever reason, the number entered the Flock system, it was recorded as 34 DTM. So, in other words, Flock just ignores the middle two digits, which includes, you can see, that would be that those numbers go from 0 to 99, so that's 100 cars. This apparently drove Flock's AI haywire. I doubt that. I think that's the wrong word. I think Flock errs on the side of over-inclusiveness. For Flock, this is as good as this is as good as this. So, as long as you fit the genus, you know, that's good enough for Flock. They don't care if the species is wrong. Flock just saw that 34 DTM and large type and started alerting local police. Later, Fetter discovered that the car they were looking for wasn't stolen after all. The license plate had been accidentally misplaced during a photo shoot. So, there's two mistakes here. The first mistake I pointed out, Flock is over-inclusive. They're like, "Hey, as long as we got somebody among those 100 people is guilty, and that's good enough for us, and it's good enough for the police."
