Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Salary Report and welcome to Sou Falls, South Dakota, where I'm with last year's hero of the year and the head of team cash, Susan Lucha. So, you need no introduction on the salera report, but I have to tell you, spending 24 hours with Susan and her family is always an incredible treat and your friends and some great state legislators. >> Mhm. >> So, you've been campaigning? >> We have been campaigning. Yep. The election is tomorrow and my husband's running for state h state house of representatives. >> Uhhuh. >> And all of this came about because of cash. So, here we are. And you've been part of a ground game and knocked on you and Manuel have knocked on 2,000 doors. >> Yep. Over 2,000 doors for his campaign, but um made some made some progress and raised a lot of awareness. So, we're going to talk about that and we're going to talk about cash. Thank you for having me and I'm so glad blessed to be here talking about cash, my favorite topic. And we're going to talk about what I've been doing in the last year turtling still on cash. And along with that, I would like to fold in some anecdotes about several solar topics. So things like the cell phone tower, the data center, banks, ex the legislative run, and things that actually all kind of tie back into cash. So we're going to talk about those topics a little bit too. >> So So we're focused on freedom and cash is a powerful tool to protect freedom and we bump into all the things that are encroaching on freedom. >> Right. Exactly. >> It's one thing. So, turtling for cash part two. Okay. So, where do you want to start? >> I would like to start with our cash legislation that we passed last year, which was cash at school events. This legislation passed by one vote in the grace of God if you remember from turtling for cash part one. And so what happened was in August we started up our school year again. The law went to into effect July 1st and we started up our school year in August. and we had um schools having football games and volleyball games and things like that and it's now state law that they must accept cash. Uh well uh there were several schools that decided they still didn't have to take cash and so because we were the family that stood up uh everyone contacted me and contacted our family. Well, they're not taking cash. Um what are you going to what am I going to do? Well, I didn't really know what to do. So, the first thing I did is I sent the school's email um and said, "You're violating state law." And included a copy of the state law. Now, one thing we did un sort of knowingly, but unknowingly is that we we put in a clause for the playoffs so that no matter where the school team was playing, they had to accept cash. whether it was a homeschool property or whether it was a big playoff stadium that was to include the playoffs that they have to accept cash for playoffs. Well, it turns out that that clause worked in our favor because what it did is it said even if you're the team, it's illegal for you to play at a venue that doesn't take cash. Even if you're the team. So, when I was sending those emails, I could send it not just to the home team that didn't take cash. I could send it to the away team because they were violating state law, too. >> Now, would you send it to the head of the would you send it to the coach or the principal or the school board? Who who >> Usually, I'd send it either um to the athletic director at the school if I had their information. If not, I'd send it to the principal of the school. Um or in in one case, I even sent it to the superintendent of the school. So, it depended because some some districts are big and some are small. So, I'd send this email saying, "You're violating state law." Uh, that worked in most cases except for one, and the one school still refused to take cash. So, I said, "Okay, I'm going to come verify this for myself. I'm hearing it from all the parents. I believe them, but let me verify it myself. I want myself." They weren't taking cash, and they weren't letting in people for free. So, our law says you either have to take the cash or you have to let people in for free. They weren't doing that. >> [clears throat] >> So, I sent them another email and said, "I was there myself. I saw it. You're not taking cash." And he said, "Yes, we are." And I said, "Oh, well, no, you're not. So, I'm going to now show up with my friends, their cameras, we're going to take video. We're going to take pictures. And then we're going to bring another bill this next legislative session that's an enforcement bill that's going to say every time you have an event and you don't take cash, we're going to fine you cuz our bill had no enforcement clause. We had no fine or penalty uh for violating state law. And I just want to stop you and say in my experience when you're trying to do something new like that, you have a much better chance of getting the first bill through and then coming back and getting the enforcement bill when somebody won't, you know. >> Exactly. So, but then I I had an idea because this school uh I'm not going to name the school, but they there would be a reason why this school wouldn't want bad publicity. Let me just say it that way. So, I said, "I'm going to call the bill the ABC high school bill." [laughter] And and let's just say I showed up with my friends and my cameras and guess what? They had a cash line. So, the threat of an enforcement bill that was called the ABC high school bill uh worked. And so, we did have end up having a successful school year um in terms of school events taking cash. So, we did enforce our own state law and we had a win there. But a lot of people didn't realize, a lot of our legislators didn't even realize that just because you pass a state law, it doesn't mean anybody's going to follow it. We live in this world, even in South Dakota, and I have some examples of that actually that I want to just quick talk about. We have a lot of laws in South Dakota that are not being followed and they're not being enforced. So for example when legislators take their oath of office they have to say that they will not have conflicts of interest they and but what has happened in our legislature is that when legislators have said I I don't want to vote on this bill because I have a conflict of interest the committee chair or speaker or whatever has told them you can't do that you have to vote >> really. So what we have in South Dakota is we have for example um state the state can invest in Bitcoin bills being brought by legislators who have Bitcoin mining companies in the state. >> I think that's a conflict of interest and even though it's in the oath of office no one is enforcing that and they're being told they have to vote. So that's one example. Another example is we actually have federal term limits in our constitution that is not being enforced. uh Thoon shouldn't be uh where he is in the Senate and Round shouldn't even be on the ballot. He's on the ballot tomorrow. So, that's not being enforced either. It's kind of a big deal. We also have a lucrative office clause in South Dakota constitution that says if you're already in a government lucrative office, for example, you're a city council member who's getting a stipend or um health insurance or being uh compensated in that way. You can't hold another public lucrative office like a state legislature legislator [gasps] who gets a small stipen. So you can't get stipens from sort of two government jobs. And we have plenty of state legislators that are also um pulling city council. So we we have a lot of violations of our constitution, of our state laws. And so just because the legislature passes a law or just because something's in the constitution, you need someone to enforce it. Has anybody ever gone and tried to clean up? Because I think you know given the potent so legislator is not full-time and so it's going to be very difficult to never have a conflict of interest even if you did everything you could not to have one. So you need the ability to recuse yourself. Good heavens. >> Correct. Correct. And unfortunately at this point enforcing these are just some examples that I pulled off today. >> Unfortunately enforcing this is a full-time job. I mean, [laughter] you know, we need to hire someone. I don't know what. Um, but attorney general. >> Yeah. Well, >> right. >> I I don't know what to say. I don't want to start on that, but um yeah, I would think so, too, that the attorney general should be enforcing these these pretty fundamental things. Um but for whatever reason, >> you need a legislative cleanup anyway. >> Yes. So, but I don't think that's uncommon. I mean, we see this in South Dakota. So just because they're passing laws uh doesn't mean that they're being followed or that there's anybody enforcing them. Which brings me back to cash because again the number one thing we can all do is pay with cash. And so I I actually skipped one point that I want to come back to which is what do I mean by cash? When people hear me talk about cash or hear I'm the South Dakota cash lady, they're say what cash loses its value. The dollars, you know, inflation and so forth. What I'm talking about is not saving all your money in cash. What I'm talking about is when you buy gas and you buy groceries, you have a choice of using cash or your credit card or your debit card. And I'm asking you to make the choice to use physical cash. I'm asking you to go to your ATM, go to your bank, get your physical cash out of your bank account, and use that to pay for gas and groceries. If all of us pay for at least gas and groceries, anything, let's say, under $100 with cash, we're going to keep our financial transaction freedom. But we all have to do it. We I can sit here in South Dakota and pass laws until I'm blue in the face or red in the face, but then I've got to run around and try and enforce them. The easier way is for us all just to pay with cash and don't support businesses that do not take cash. It really is that simple. I can't do this by myself. I need everybody doing this not just in South Dakota but worldwide and thank you so for helping me uh promote cash in that way. So um so let me just step in and make sure everybody understands. So I describe the systems now with two locks. So cash is the only truly two lock system where the buyer has a lock or a veto on the transaction and the seller. So, two people and and they decide what happens and it's relatively surveillance free. >> So, there's privacy and and it's between the buyer and seller. It's nobody else's business. That's a two-lock system. If it goes through a digital tracks in a bank in the current financial system, there is a manual third lock. We know what happened to the Canadian trackers. That's a manual third lock. It's very cumbersome. Takes a lot of work, a lot of laws, a lot of mess. Now what they're pushing up to is an automatic third lock backed up with the data centers and with digital IDs and and what that means is central headquarters can interfere in your transactions and supersede what you and you know what the buyer and the seller want. So that's an automatic three-lock system with a third lock which is superior. So Mr. global gets a say in every individual transaction and the data centers and AI are are what really make that system go and so what we're saying is if you protect two lock money they can't move to a system that's all third all three lock and therefore they can't automate the third lock for control >> right exactly so we need and that takes all of us there's no president there's no legislature there's no congress that can fix this for us we have got to choose to pay with cash at least for gas and groceries. Don't invest in cash. Don't put all your money in cash in your bank account, but use it for your transactions, your daily transactions. That's what I'm asking everyone to do, and that's what I'm really trying to promote here. So, one of the most successful I do a lot of things that fail and one of the most successful things I've done has actually been Halloween cash at Halloween. So, I have my Cash's King costume where I just printed out uh dollar bills and different $5 bills and $10 bills on my printer and I pasted I glued them on an a cardboard box and I strung it over my shoulders and and then I have a king hat and that's my Cash's King Halloween costume. This year I decided, well, everyone in town knows it. Uh it's the same costume every year. So, we made new costumes. It's called Cary Cash. So, we're basically cowboys. Instead of pistols carrying pistols, we carry cash. So, we have holsters and we put cash in our pockets. We have cash eyeglasses and cowboy hats. And that's our new costume this year. So, that was really exciting for us. And then we of course give out cash at the door for Halloween. We give out dollar bills usually for the older kids and the little kids get quarters with the cash messages on them. The orders are taped to the back of a piece of paper with a cash message >> and tell you this is the most clever way to not poison kids with sugar on Halloween cuz they like the cash more. Right. >> They do. And we're getting more and more people worldwide to do this and to try it. People are afraid. They think the kids won't like it. And the feedback I'm getting all over the place is that the kids love it and they're happy about it. They come back. I this has been so have these little stickers on them that tell them why you should use cash and then they run home and tell their parents they should use cash. >> Exactly. I tell them at the door uh pay with cash not credit and they run back mommy mommy pay with cash not credit. It's it's so successful. So this year we decided to do a basically a trunk or treat event. There was one in the state park where the kids go around the campground and get candy from all the different campers or businesses that set up in the campground. So, we just poached and set up a little cash uh thing and we wrote we wore our cash and carry costumes and we handed out cash. I was prepared for a few hundred kids. It turns out the event has a thousand kids. So, um luckily we don't live far away so I ran home and got more quarters and taped them to the back of the papers and we but next year we'll be prepared for a thousand kids and we're just reaching more and more people. A lot of people already know us and they hear the the message every year and the kids look for us and and the parents know. And so I feel like slowly, it's taken years, it's taken thousands of kids, but slowly we're promoting it. I still do carry dollar bills in my wallet with a cash sticker on the back. If people ask me about cash or whatever, I give them a dollar with a sticker on it and I ask them to uh spend it and use it and circulate it around. I actually want to say that I had my first dollar bill come back to me really >> and I am so excited sort of. So what happened was Katherine sent was sent me to Rogue Foods and I'm blessed for that and I got to talk about my favorite topic which is cash and some there was someone at Rogue Foods who spoke from Wyoming and we got in a conversation about freedom and what's freedom look like in Wyoming and it turns out he got a dollar one of my dollar bills in Wyoming and I said you did and he's like yeah wow you're the lady that did that or the family that did that and I was like yeah and I said where is it? show me. And he said, "I can't. I spent it." And I was like, "Well, great. I'm glad you circulated it." But I was so excited to hear from someone I just don't know, not even in my state, had gotten one of these dollar bills. I think over the years in dollar bills, we must have given out already about $2,000 in dollar bills probably over the years. And I don't know how many quarters. the quarters, they untapeed from the message. So, the message doesn't get circulated with the quarters, but it does get circulated with the dollar bills. So, I love it that people are circulating them and uh and putting them putting them around. So, the other thing I want to mention about the dollar bills is that uh I got a call from my banker about the dollar bills because I order them in advance for Halloween because I just need so many. So, I don't want to show up to the bank and say, "I need, you know, $400 in dollar bills and, you know, wipe them out." So, I order in advance. I just give them a few days notice and they give me whatever dollar bills I want. And that hasn't been a problem until this past year. My the manager, branch manager of bank called me and was very um rude about the dollar bills. She just said, "Why do you need these?" and we don't do this and we don't give this kind of money unless you're a business um you know order this kind of money and what are you doing with them and she knew I was giving them out on stickers it's or putting stickers on them it's a small town she knew exactly what I was doing and she was just kind of rude about it and said I can't be doing this all the time and all of that now this is a difficult one because the branch manager is sort of um uh I would they politically on the other side of us, but a lot of the ladies in the bank are not um that work in the bank are kind of more down to earth and more with us and understand the importance of cash. So, I realized, you know what, if I have a bank, if I'm banking at a bank that doesn't get the cash and doesn't support cash at the top level, maybe I shouldn't be banking here. And we did due diligence on this bank. We looked at their financials. We did the whole Solary finding a good local bank thing. We love the bank. They know us by name, uh, by face. We love the bank. But I said, you know what? This is a branch manager and I think we need to get out of this bank um over over this issue. And it's important. It's extremely important. And if that means we have to lose, we have to find a new bank, we have to find a new bank. >> So I drag my husband around for a day. He was not happy. And we looked for a new bank. We thought we researched online and looked at some things and we thought, "Okay, this looks like the best place." So, we went there and to ask some questions and it turns out they didn't want to answer the questions, couldn't answer the questions, etc. Said, "All right, we're not banking here." So, we ended up just going around all day. I said, "We are not going to stop going around to banks." We took the day off until we find one where we can open an account. We went to seven banks. It was terrible. they were all just not up to par. And then we finally found one. It's actually a startup sort of credit union um that was very, you know, sort of met all of our criteria and gave us financials and was open and honest and we were very comfortable there. So now what we've done is we've moved about half of our uh banking to that credit union. So, we're kind of 50% here and 50% there. In terms of local banks, I don't know if we'll get out of that original bank completely. >> You never want to leave the old one until you've been through one or two tax cycles because you want access to the information. >> Right. Right. There's that and just kind of hedging your bets at this point. But, um, so the cash issue actually caused us to go through the whole salary find a local bank. And I sympathize with those of you out there who are having trouble doing that. It took us a full day off work to find a new good local bank and get an account set up. And you know, it w it's painful, but it is so important. So important. So, um, all right, moving on. The next thing that happened, I'm kind of going in chronological order here, is that we have cell phone towers all over the place, a lot of times near our schools here in Sou Falls area. And what we had was a a 5G tower that wanted to go in across from an elementary school and an intermediate school. So I think it's total about 1,200 kids if I remember right. And they wanted to put a 5G tower of course on the school property, but our superintendent said no to that. So they found a a little um property across the street where they wanted to put the cell phone tower. Uh so not me but somebody else organized against the cell phone tower to try another mom uh petitioned or was trying to go to city council and speak out against the cell phone tower and it just kept dragging on and she really uh wasn't getting anywhere and luckily I read about in the paper and I showed up and tried to help and so basically what happened was they were reszoning the land from natural conservation to industrial so that they would have the correct zoning to put in the cell phone tower. So, we caught it before the cell phone tower use permit. We caught it at the reszoning level. And so, what happened was there were they approved the city council of course approved the reszoning. It wasn't unanimous. I think it was 4 to three. So, we did have some dissent on that which was good, but it still passed. And so in South Dakota, you can petition local decisions with 5% of registered voters. So if you get a petition together with 5% of registered voters, you can put that issue on the ballot. So we had five of us moms basically that said, "Let's try to petition the cell the reasonzoning for the cell phone tower." Now, I'm going to pause here for a second because what's fascinating about these moms is that three of us are what I would call Republican conservatives. I guess at least that would probably align with the three of us, most of all the political affiliations. And then we have two people of the five that are Democrats. Uh, and the five of us though worked as a team and we work together. We support each other. We are 100% like-minded on the cell phone tower. So the cell phone tower did something huge in my mind. It shifted the fight from Democrats versus Republicans to what I call corpos versus peeps. Now what does that mean? Corpos to me to in our family means corporations. It means the either the corporations themselves or the people backed by the corporations some way somehow. either they're getting a salary, they're getting campaign donations, however, kickbacks for whatever. So, I call those corpos. And then peeps is what my teenagers say to describe their peeps. They're people. They're they're what we would say Mandelola or their group, their people, their citizens >> and taxpayers >> and taxpayers. And that's what my teenagers call them. So, this shifted the fight from uh Democrats versus Republicans to corpose versus peeps. And that's the fight I think we all really really need to be fighting. And that's what I've been telling people when I go around and talk about cash. I'll talk to Democrats. I'll talk to Republicans. This is a corpos versus peeps. And that's really the fight we need to be fighting. And those are really the sides. And I wish we could see it because then what would it happen is I feel like the peeps would have a much better chance if they would unite. >> So I just have to say I've been in the United States now for six or seven weeks. And what I'm seeing is that all the so the so the control grid has three legs. It's a three-legged stool. There's programmable money, there's digital ID, and then there's the local hardware. and the local hardware. It's the flat cameras and the surveillance. It's the um the cell towers and the underground cables as well. And then it's the data centers. And what we're suddenly seeing is all the local hardware issues from the flock cameras to the data centers to the cell towers is getting people to come out of their couch and put aside Democrat versus Republican. And what they're all saying is, "Wait a minute. We're paying for this. This is affecting our quality of life. We don't want this. And this will be used to control us. And we And that's exactly what you're seeing. You're seeing everybody get out of the uni party, divide and conquer, and into stopping the local hardware." >> Exactly. >> Yeah. Exactly. So this I'm going to tie this quick back to cash. So, us five moms from all these political affiliations worked together and we got our we had 20 days to get 5% of signatures which in our area was 400 signatures. It was around Thanksgiving. So, not only was it cold in South Dakota, it was sort of a holiday season. We got our signatures done in about 10 days and uh we're on the ballot in November and um we're going to work together again on that getting the word out about the right way to vote on that ballot uh issue and hopefully we're going to at least stop the cell phone tower in that location. Now, I'm sure they'll find another location and whatnot, but at least we're not going to have it right across the street from our schools, God willing, in November. Um but another to bring this back to cash for a second. So, one thing then that happened is one of the Democrats that I just didn't happen to know ended up coming to my Easter party and learned about cash because one of the things we do at Easter is we put cash in the Easter eggs with cash messages. So, that kind of brought that family in that we didn't know and sort of brought these people together that are like-minded and they're like, "Oh, cash. Oh, yeah, that makes sense." And once people, you explain it to people, they think about it, they see the message, uh we're just planting a lot of seeds. So that issue helped us plant even more seeds. So the next thing after sort of Thanksgiving cell phone tower, we had the Christmas float in the Christmas holiday parade. Unfortunately, we got cancelled again because of weather. That's South Dakota. But my plan is still for next year to uh on our street neighborhood Christmas float, we're going to throw quarters because quarters don't fly away in the wind. We're going to throw quarters with cash messages um taped on. So that's that's next year. Hopefully I'll report next year back on that. And then my Christmas present for my daughter was this $10 cash coupon, which basically says she gets $10 cash per month with no digital purchases. So, if she buys her She's off at college now, so she buys her gas and groceries with her cash and not her debit or her credit card, she gets $10 cash. Well, this has been an utter failure. My daughter doesn't care. She still uses her debit card all the time. She's a college student, so don't tell her. She probably won't listen to this anyway. Uh, but next year, I'm going to up the up the money from $10. I might try $20 or I don't know what her trigger level will be, but we'll be trying this again. This failed. But what's interesting about this is then right after I did this at Christmas, guess what she got in the mail? A $10 reward from her bank for to qualify. Simply make at least 20 transactions on your First Dakota National Bank debit card in March. valid March 1 to 31. So, they're get offering her $10 to use her debit card um 20 times in the month of March. Now, is that creepy? I think it's a little creepy that I gave her this cash coupon. >> It's unlikely it's a coincidence. >> It's unlikely it's a coincidence. And I want to point out um this bank is not our bank. We don't actually bank here. She she has a account open at this bank with $20, I think, in it. and she did it because she wanted to apply for their scholarship when she was in high school as a senior. So, she literally is the only one in our family with a an account at this bank. But I thought that was just super creepy. So, I want to point that out. All right. So, the next thing that happened to us in the thick of winter was the data center, the Sou Falls data center. Now, what was interesting about this is Sou Falls was very sneaky about their data center. They said, "We're going to sneaky annex some land on the edge of town between Sou Falls and Brandon and we're going to annex it and then put the 500 megawatt data center right there." Now, 500 megawatts is about the same amount of power that the whole city of Sou Falls consumes. But what's interesting is they put the they re they annex the land and that data center will be less than a half a mile away from homes in Brandon where I live but yet about a mile or more away from any Sou Falls homes. The residents in Brandon have no voice in the Sou Falls City Council. So the resident the homes that it's closest to have no voice in that data center. Sou Falls had a city council meeting where they discussed the data center. They were again trying to reszone from I think agricultural to light industrial industrial I believe. So Sou Falls had a city council meeting about this and I think uh about 170 people showed up. I think a hund more than 100 people testified. I think it went till midnight. I actually slept through it. My husband went and he was there late and they all testified. And this again turned into corpos versus peeps. All the peeps were there. The Democrats with, you know, blue hair and nose rings and all kinds of things. And then the old conservative grandma Republicans. Um, everyone was there testifying against this data center. Even though it wasn't close to any Sou Falls homes, they were testifying about electricity and our electric rates just went up 10%. They were testifying about water, about all these things. So it was again a situation where the peeps came together no matter their political affiliation. Now what happened was the city council members politely listened to all of this testimony and then voted in favor of the data center 7 to zero. So in South Dakota, we have a this process where these decisions can be put on the ballot with a petition of 5% of the signatures just like we did with a cell phone tower. Now the problem was the the Brandon moms that did the cell phone tower couldn't do this because we don't live in Sou Falls. So our signatures are invalid because we don't live in Sou Falls city limits. So we could collect signatures but we couldn't sign ourselves. And of course living in Brandon, most of our friends and community are in Brandon, not in Sou Falls. But us moms, cell phone tower moms, uh did collect signatures for the cell for the data center petition, but it was led by Sou Falls residents. Sou Falls is also a much larger town. So 5% of registered voters in 20 days. That's about 6,700 signatures needed in 20 days in January in South Dakota. >> Wow. So, >> what's the average temperature in January? I don't know. >> Freezing. Below freezing. >> Below freezing. >> Um, and it's not really the temperature, it's the windchill that gets you. And so, we did do some standing outside, but it was brutal. In fact, I was collecting signatures outside with a friend in front of a hockey game, and our pens were frozen. People couldn't sign because the ink was frozen in the pen. Um, so it was brutal, but um, we did collect a lot of signatures. Now what was interesting was this was led by Sou Falls people not by us cell tower moms and there were several things that didn't quite make sense about it. So one of the organizers was kind of downright rude. Um the whole organization team didn't want signatures turned in to the city clerk or the city the city clerk's office which is where they go. She wanted the signatures turned into the tattoo shop where they would be locked up and protected and counted and then turned in on the last day. Now, this isn't how we did the cell phone tower. On the cell phone tower, we turned in the signatures to the clerk as we got them and then the clerk would validate the signatures and tell us what our total was. Okay, you have 200 signatures, you have 350 now, you know. So, we got a running total. We knew it. We knew how hard we needed to work and how many more signatures we needed. Well, they just locked wanted to lock them up in a room, not tell anyone how many signatures they had and not turn them into the city clerk. And I had multiple conversations with the organizers about this. I sent multiple emails. I said, "People need to know how many more signatures we have so they know if they have to, you know, canvas all night or we need to know where we're at. We need to know how many are valid." And they just would not. And so I said, "You know what? This is awful suspicious on multiple levels." So I found out that one of the organizers was paid by the data center. Now that we saw this all the time in California, they would when we lived in California, the the uh the corporations would pay someone to lead the opposition. Okay. People here in South Dakota aren't used to that. So it would I I feel like I'm the only one that figured it out. No one else figured it out. >> How how were you able to ascertain that they were paid? >> So, there were three organizers. I was suspicious of all three. The one that was downright rude, um I just I I was very suspicious and I checked checked out on her. I checked around on her. H how do any of these three people make money? First of all, one of them's claiming to have five little kids. I don't see how that person doesn't seem to work and seems to be out all the time with five kids. Like there were a lot of things that just didn't make sense to me. Um but one of them specifically I checked into Asteround and it turns out she's a paid petition circulator. So she's a known paid petition circulator. So then it's like okay well who's paying her? She earns I think about $30 an hour is what I would was told. >> Um so the question is who pays her and who paid her to do this? Well, it >> so you know what uh you know I always talk about always know how the money works on any situation and know know how the money works for every person you're working with and what's going on. You need to know how the perfect example. >> Right. Right. And at that point when I realized she was paid by the data center um I didn't even need to research the other two. It was sort of not worth my time at that point. And so what they do is they collect signatures and they they >> they sabotage the process. >> Yeah. They they just disappear the signatures. They were also doing things like telling people to turn in signatures without the forms being notorized. The forms have to be notorized by the collector of the signatures. They told them to turn them in unnottorized and they want to cross some off that weren't valid and then you were going to come back and notorized. I don't know. The whole thing was just so sketchy. So I said, "All right, I figured this out. I want my signatures to be counted." So I I took mine directly in the city clerk office, not to the tattoo shop. And the city clerk is totally on our side, it turns out, cuz they're peeps. So, they are totally on our side. They were happy to get my signatures. They were happy to email me a couple hours later with exactly the total of how many I had turned in and I don't think they validated them at that point, but they had, you know, were right on track. You turned in this many signatures. This is your total count. It was a tough situation because I tried to get the word out about that that we need to turn in our signatures directly to the clerk, but that's going against what the organizers are saying. And a lot of people here in South Dakota have never seen this before where the opposition would pay the organizers. They just trust. I mean, we live in a world of trust here in South Dakota. We all leave our homes open. We all leave our keys, our car keys in our cars. That's just how we live um around here for the most part. Not everyone lives that way, but a lot of us still do. And it's hard to get people to um to realize these things when they're not used to seeing them. One of the um things we've seen and a lot of feedback we're getting on data centers is that they're not used to developers who intentionally lie. And they're now even Tik Tok videos about developer professional liars, you know, that are funny. But but if you're not used to dealing with people who lie and use covert operations, we need to get, you know, we need to get educated about that right away. >> Yeah. >> Right. Yep. Yeah. [laughter] So that was our data center experience. Uh so the data center did go through our petition obviously failed. Um and the data center as of now is scheduled to be built. We did bring a bill, us Brandon, Brandon Moms, basically cell phone tower moms, uh, brought a bill to the legislature. We actually got it out of committee. Um, was killed on the House floor. Uh, you know, and all the other data center bills basically failed. We did get through a data center bill of rights, but it's, in my opinion, not enforceable. [clears throat] Our electric rates already went up 10%. In my opinion, that's got to be for the data center. There's no other reason. So, um I don't know. We're still working on it. We're still brainstorming. We're still still seeing if there's anything we can do on that. I think our focus right now is to get everyone elected who's a peep and not a corpo so that we can have the votes to do something in the legislature. So, that's our focus I think right now at this point in time. The election is tomorrow. So, that's that's what we're all focused on. All right. So, back to cash. In the past, I've done cash talks at any group that will talk to me. So, Republicans, Democrats, just any group, Rogue Foods, any any group that will talk about cash or wants to hear about it, I will talk at. Unfortunately, this past year, I was only able to talk at one local group. the Democrats won't talk to me anymore because even though these are actually blue state bills, the cash bills, uh they are just so polarized in uh the Democrats versus Republicans that because I brought the bill with one of the most conservative Republicans in our legislature, they won't talk to me anymore. So, that's all right. I hope some days they realize that they need their Republican brothers and sisters. And I hope the Republican Republicans realize they need their Democrat brothers and sisters cuz we're all peeps. >> Well, I will I will also say one thing. A lot of the Republican versus Democrat is intentionally engineered. A lot of money is put into it to keep them from talking to each other and being effective. And that's how Mr. Global is coming into their hometown and absolutely rolling them. I mean, when you think of what the noise pollution of that new data center is going to do to people near it, you know, and and and but you you get them to not understand that and not stop it by getting them fighting. >> Exactly. It's a plan. Is it It's working pretty well, but we're we're trying to fight against it, but yeah, it's working pretty well. So, the one talk I did give this year is a group that I've talked at a few times before. So, they've heard the cash story, but I feel like a lot of them don't really fully get it. And a lot of them are still paying with their credit cards. They get it. They've heard it a few times, but they're not they're not paying with cash every day for gas and groceries. Some of them are, but a lot of them aren't. So, I thought, what can I do this year that's different that will just kind of jar them? And so what I did is I showed them a 15-minute horror movie. I call it a horror movie called Utopia. And what this movie is about is about someone who went away from his city called Utopia for I think 15 years or so, came back and the digital control grid was implemented. So for example, he only had cash, but nowhere took cash anymore. They had cameras everywhere surveilling you, controlling you. If you said a curse word, you would get a fine. You couldn't leave your house. your car wouldn't start until you paid your fine. Um, and the only place that there weren't cameras or uh microphones to listen to your curse words and find you was in the bathroom. So, in the bathroom you could drink wine and you could curse and all those things. So, people started building their homes with bigger bathrooms. And the movie has a fun uh English English accent to it that people like and it's only 15 minutes. So, I thought, let me show them this horror movie. And let me pause a minute about this horror movie. Turns out when if I skip ahead, my husband's currently running for legislature, and he does not want to run for legislature, let me tell you. Um, and when I told him he has to because everyone else we found can't do it for various reasons, and we don't have anybody else. And if he doesn't do it, we'll have corpos instead of peeps. And he knows this. He knows it's true, but he doesn't want to be in the legislature. So, you know, I get it. I don't want to be in the legislature either, but somebody has to do it. So, I thought, all right, my husband's mad at me. In fact, he stopped talking to me for a little while. What am I going to do? But he has to do this. So, I showed him this 15-minute horror movie. I showed it to him. And I said, "Okay, let's let's watch the movie. Let's watch this movie." And I made it homechool. We also homeschool our girls. They go to full-time public school and we homeschool them on mostly deep state tactics these days. But I said, "We're going to do it for home school. We're going to watch this movie." So I showed him the movie and after the movie, he said, "All right, I'm going to run for legislature." So >> isn't that wonderful? >> Yeah. Well, because here's scary enough. >> It's hard. It's hard for busy people to understand what that world is going to be like. And it's hard for many people to fathom that anybody would do this. And that's the great thing. So I just want to warn everybody. We're going to show the movie right now. If you don't want to watch the whole thing, skip ahead. But it's going to be internally for cash. So, here here it comes. Right. >> Yep. Sounds good. Welcome to Utopia. Citizen departures 676. Citizens arrive. >> 15 years. Ah, great to see you, Frank. >> Welcome home, Jack. >> Courtesy note, all fines must be paid before checkin. >> Thank you. Have a nice day. >> Welcome to Utopia. Citizen departures 676. >> I can't wait to see Margaret. >> Arrivals 087. Nonitizen arrival. 07. >> So glad to be back home. So, what's been happening? Anything at all? >> No, nothing's changed. >> What a beautiful day. >> Processing GPS coordinates confirmed. I'm starting the car. What do you think I'm doing? >> Did you throw out any rubbish? >> No, of course not. >> Is that yours? Let's buy a bandana. Must have fallen out my pocket. >> So what? >> What are you doing? >> I'm looking for a credit card. >> A credit card? What for? >> The car won't start unless I pay the fine. Now you understand. How about this one? It's Margaret's. >> The car's in my name. >> Well, so Margaret won't mind. Can't believe we're walking. You live our way, Frank. Anyway, who find you? I didn't see any cops. >> There are no cops. Anyone can find you. >> Gee, things have changed a bit. >> We hardly noticed. >> Margaret. >> Frank, have you seen my credit card? >> You left it in my car. >> That's great. Just [music] great. >> Why? I just got fined. >> Can you drop it off to me? >> I'm walking. >> Oh, no. Not you, too. >> What are you looking for? >> Some beer. >> There's no beer, Jack. Besides, alcohol is bad for you. >> You're not a mother, Frank. Is that a camera? New regulations. There's one in every home, in every room. It's for our own good. Jack, >> you got to be kidding me. Are you telling me that >> alcohol is illegal, smoking is illegal, and we're all much healthier now, and our insurance premiums are low? >> This is madness. What's become of this country? >> Just keep your voice down. >> Why you going to find me? >> Did I just get fined? [laughter] This is too much. What the hell were you people thinking? >> Don't swear. >> This is too up. Your government up. Your rules are up. YOU'RE ALL UP. >> Have you finished? >> [music] >> Now I am. >> Follow me. >> Hey, what the hell? No cameras, no fines. Take a seat. >> So, it's all come down to this. >> No choice. People started making their bathrooms bigger and nicer than the rest of their houses, but the government and council caught on fast and set limits to the size you can build your bathroom. >> Is there anything you don't get fined for? >> I'll have to think about that one. What are you doing? >> How's this work? >> There's a government app on your phone. You point and take a snapshot of any offense, and the government gives you 10% commission from every fine you record. >> I can't live like this. Sure you can. We're creatures of habit. [clears throat] You'll get used to it. Here, have some food. I don't care [music] so much. >> Tell him, Frank. >> Tell me what >> I'm sorry, Jack, but you can't stay. >> Why? >> $2,000 in fines, Jack. What the hell were you thinking? We also get fined because it's our house. >> I'll promise to pay you back. >> It's not just the money. You've affected everything we do. Until we pay our fines, we miss out on shopping discounts, public transport, bank loans, everything. >> I'm your brother, Frank. >> I can't fight it anymore, Jack. We hate it, too. >> Why just get up and leave the country? >> We can't leave. >> Why? >> We have a mortgage. Any debts, big or small, you can't travel outside the country. Simple as that. All the changes started happening slowly after you left. I did the protests, but teenagers and hippies on the streets aren't convincing enough. Can't blame the people. When your belly is empty, you swallow anything they shove down your throat. Artists were supposed to turn a mirror on society, but instead most of them turn the mirror on themselves and it became a selfie. And most writers, artists, poets sold out, too scared to challenge in case they lost the corporate [music] sponsor or some government grind. I'm tired now. I've done my fighting. I'd like to live out the rest of my life with the few freedoms I have left. >> Jack, just some advice. If you help anyone with a red wristband, you get fine, too. But whatever you do, never ever pay for anyone else's fine. >> Hello. >> Hello. >> Are you okay? Why are you sleeping here? >> I don't have a home. >> Why don't you sleep at a hotel? >> They won't take cash. >> So, where will you live now? >> Here. >> Processing GPS coordinates confirmed. >> before checking. Thank you. Have a nice day, >> Margaret. Nice to >> ticket, sir. >> See you. >> So, your ticket and passport, please. >> Welcome to Utopia. Citizen departure 67. Citizen arrival 077 nonitizen arrival 077 >> I'm sorry sir but you have unpaid fines >> Margaret please look I'll pay them another time I got to get out of here >> sir in order for your checking to proceed you need to pay the outstanding fines >> why are you doing this how much >> $2,000 your credit card please >> I don't have a credit card I've only got cash >> we can't accept cash [music] >> Margaret Please press some button. I beg you fix this. I got to get out of this country. Please. >> Please move away from the counter. If you do not move, I will have to find you. >> I don't care anymore. [music] >> Sorry, Jack. >> I know you are. I forgive you. >> Warning, illegal payment detected. [music] Do not move from your current location. Your cooperation is appreciated. Thank you. Can I ask you a question? Why are you always smiling? So after the people at this talk watched the horror movie, what I did is I had slides to show them how Utopia is coming to Sou Falls. >> What a great idea. >> So I took all the elements in the movie and and had a slide for all the elements that are in Sou Falls or coming to Sou Falls. So first off, the cell phone towers. A lot of the Sou Falls schools have 5G towers on their school campuses and I showed them some pictures of them. Flock cameras. Souf Falls has a ton of flock cameras. There's a website called deflock.mme and you can it has a map with all the flock cameras in your area. I showed them the flock cameras in Sou Falls. Turns out all of our current mayor candidates for election support the use of more flock cameras in Sou Falls. A lot of people at the talk, by the way, didn't realize there were cell towers on the school properties and they didn't realize there were flock cameras. So, I raised a lot of awareness with those issues. And then the Ring doorbells knock. We've knocked over 2,000 doors. I would say 90% of doors have Ring doorbells. >> You're kidding. >> Nope. Uh, and people do not realize what's going to happen. When I lived in Silicon Valley during CO, we had COVID lockdown. Your kids weren't allowed to have friends over for playdates. You weren't allowed to walk your dog, etc. They would catch you going out of your home or a kid coming over for a playd date on your neighbor's Ring doorbell and send you a ticket. Our county in California issued over $5 million in COVID fines. >> Wow. >> So this but people here don't get it. They've not seen it be used. Um so anyway, if if you've seen the movie Utopia now, you understand why Ring doorbells might be a problem. Over 90% of doors here have them. And then we had a smart camera light bulb on sale at our local Menard's, our local sort of hardware store for $19.99 at Christmas. And I saved the ad. It's a light bulb that screws into a normal light socket with a camera on it. And that's exactly Yeah. It's 1999 at on sale at Christmas. And this is what they use in the movie Utopia. The light There's cameras in every room, whether they're in the light bulbs or on the walls. So, um, we had that on sale for Christmas. And then, of course, our data center that I just talked about, that's part of this Utopia land in Sou Falls. And then the kill switches in the vehicles. A lot of people here do in South Dakota do not realize about the federal um, kill switches in the vehicles. So, that was an eye openener for some people. >> I just have to stop you for a second. We're just about to publish an interview with John Padfield about how all the new cars have cameras that are watching and recording you. >> And if you rent a car and you read the terms and conditions, you know, if the camera, which is sharing data with all sorts of different people, uh, sees you doing something that's technically in violation, they can pull the insurance. >> Right. >> Right. >> Right. So, the other thing we have in South Dakota as of 2025 is we have digital vehicle titles now. So, that's another way. Do you really own your car even? Um, I don't know. So, we got we that legislation was passed in 2025. And then, of course, there's the get rid of cash movement that's sort of worldwide. Um, Social Security is going 100% paperless by March 2025. No more paper checks from the federal government in September 2025. No more pennies. By the way, nickels cost more to mint, so it's probably not going to save us any money. And the rounding tax to consumers could cost us about $6 million a year. And then the other interesting thing is that the Fed is actually tracking cashless settle sentiment for the first time in 2025. So because of all of our cash legislation and we have to be right with God and have proof for everything we say. I always bring these statistics from the Federal Reserve about cash, who uses cash, who has a who's has a credit card, who doesn't, etc. So one of the things in the Fed diary of um consumer payment choice this year for the first time was that the Fed is tracking cashless sentiment. So they're they're asking people, do you currently have any plans to stop using cash in the future? And in 2020, well, it's a year behind in the in the in their statistics. So in 2024, they said 92% of people said, "No, I do not have any plans to stop using cash." And then 5% of people said, "Yes, I have already stopped using cash." And then 1% of people said I plan to stop using cash in the next two years. Two to five uh 1% of people said also I plan to stop using cash in the next 2 to 5 years and more than 5 years from now I plan to stop using cash. That was also 1% of people. So most people say they're still using cash and they plan to keep using cash. So that's good. That's good news. But the bad news here is that the Fed is even tracking this. They want to know when are we ready to give up cash. They were not tracking this previously and now they're tracking this. Um, at least in their in their published statistics they weren't tracking it. So now they're publishing it and saying people want to get rid of cash maybe someday. So anyway, so the elimination of cash and then the other thing I did in this talk that I gave is I had a new argument for the credit card people. So, credit card fees cost the average American household about $1,200 annually. And you're paying for it or are you is the question. So, it turns out that credit card reward expenses. I have a chart here and they're showed in blue on this chart. Meanwhile, the transaction margin is shown in red. So basically what this is telling you is that the rewards programs cost more than the swipe fees and the annual fees. So they're giving away more in cash back and free flights and things like that than you're paying in your swipe fees and in your annual fees. So how how is that possible? So let me go back. So the average household pays 1,200 in fees, but they're getting more than 1,200 in rewards. Correct? So they're they're trying to buy everybody into the trap. Well, here's the thing. So if I if you let me if I keep going for a second, this does not include interest charges, >> right? >> And finance charges, right? So basically what happens is they're making it up in the interest and finance charges. So according to the Federal Reserve, the credit card credit function meaning interest charges makes up about 80% of credit card profitability. So fees in particular late fees comprise approximately 15% of credit card profitability. So if you look at the ratio of credit card debt to uh monthly income. Okay, that's what this next chart is. This chart is about that I showed them. So, if you look at it, the people that are lower income have more credit card debt, right? >> Okay. And then it kind of goes down. As you get to the higher income levels, they have less credit card debt. So, this this tells you that your lowincome families and your medium income families are paying for your rewards cuz they're the ones paying the finance charges. pay higher interest rates. >> A lot of times they do and the late fees, the interest charges and potentially higher rates. Um, so the so your vacation or your cash back is coming from the low and medium income people. So is that really a vacation or a reward that you can feel good about? I don't I don't know. So you go on your vacation and then you donate money to the local food bank. Why not just stop using your credit card and pay with cash? So, um, and then the other thing I want to that came out in this last year, I think Solari put it out and I I would like to just read it really quick, is from a zero hedge article called when cash disappears, so does something else. So, it says, if I hand $20 in cash to the empan empatada vendor, he hands that same $20 to the barber who cuts his hair. The barber gives it to a babysitter. or the babysitter uses it to buy a pizza, the same $20 bill keeps moving through the community at full value. No one skims anything off the top. But in the digital system, that cut happens again and again, and the effect compounds at a 3.5% fee. After one transaction, that $20 becomes $1930. After two transactions, that that $20 is now $18.62. after three transactions is $17.97, etc. So, by the time five digital transactions happen, only about $16.74 remains in circulation. So, more than $3 of the original $20 has quietly disappeared in a handful of everyday exchanges. That money didn't go to the farmer, the barber, the babysitter, or the pizza shop. It left the community entirely. Now that money that left the community, where did it go? It went to Mastercard that's head headquartered in New York or Visa headquartered in San Francisco. Do we as South Dotans really want to fund people in New York and San Francisco? So let's let's aggregate that and look. So if I remember correctly, two years ago, you said that the total credit card fees taken out of South Dakota in one year was what? Almost a billion dollars. uh but it was a lot. >> It was 750 million. Imagine if that 700 million >> continued to circulate and multiply within South Dakota. It's amazing in terms of the municipal and state tax base and just local business. >> Yep. Absolutely. >> You're talking about a fortune, >> right? I used that argument last year and I'm trying to use different arguments every year. So this was my new argument in the talk uh this year and at the end of my talk I always get really good questions and I the talk usually there at that group ends up going at least 2 hours if not two and a half or three and I get a lot of really good questions that that really challenge me to come up with a better message or a better way of communicating. So, one of the questions I got this year after all of this was, "Why am I so passionate about cash?" And I just thought, "H, I didn't get my message across. I need I I failed. If they don't get why I'm so passionate about cash now, I'm not sure how they'll get it." But then I I just thought and I just thought, "H". Then I looked at him and I said, "Do you want to live in utopia?" Remember the horror movie that I showed you? Do you want to live in utopia? And everyone's everyone said shook their head, "No, we don't want to live in utopia." I said, "Do you have a better idea? Do you have a better idea? Anybody here have a better idea other than paying with cash every day?" Everybody looks at each other. No better idea. No better idea. And it's as simple as paying with cash every day for your gas and groceries. It really is that simple. That's all I need. You don't need to give out stickers at Halloween. Dollars with stickers at Halloween. You just need to pay with cash for at least your gas and your groceries every day. That's it. And no one had a better idea. If anybody listening to this has a better idea, please let me know. I'd love I'd love to know. I don't have a better idea. Doug, can I just stop and say one thing? So, you and your husband were successful silicon engineers. And one of the things, one of the reasons I think you're passionate about cash is, you know, that any digital system can end up with a third lock. That there's no, you know, I listen to a lot of activists say, "Oh, well, we have this digital system or that digital system that can work." And I'm like, "No, if you're going to have a successful financial system, you have to have a healthy analog part. You have to have something that's absolutely two lock." And I think it's because you've you know you've you've you have the I mean you have fantastic engineering degrees you worked in Silicon Valley. you understand where that all goes and that it's it's always potentially going to be central controlled, you know. So, keeping analog alive is it >> right. >> Right. And what we saw in Silicon Valley is there's a back door to everything. Everything. I don't I people come and say this crypto secure, this credit card, this bank account. None of it is. There's a back door to everything, >> right? And you know, and I hate to say it, but I I think Katherine's right about, you know, the attitude in Silicon Valley is we're smarter and better than everyone else, and we can control the other idiots. You know, I hate to say it, but that is kind of the attitude um in Silicon Valley. And uh we just saw one of the top tech billionaires move to Argentina because now that more and more people understand that that's what his attitude is, you know, he's out. He wants to get out of town. >> Right. >> Right. >> Yep. So I think it's time for the peeps to stand up and use cash every day for gas and groceries and uh send these numbers the other way. >> You don't have to fight with Mr. Global. You don't have to fight with Silicon Valley. Just don't use them. Walk away. use cash and don't shop at businesses that don't take cash. >> Um, and the other the other question I got at the talk after the talk besides why am I so passionate about cash the other question I got is how do I know that the data centers are being used for control like the control grid that we saw in the Utopia movie or the control grid that Katherine and I think is coming. How do I know the data centers are being used for that and not just for my everyday digital activities like texting or calling or streaming my favorite video? How do I know that they're actually going to use them for control? People here don't they're trusting. They're very trusting and they don't see that the data centers are necessarily evil. They think it's part of technology and and growth and we need them to communicate with our grandma in Germany and so forth. So, how do I know they're being used for control? And he stumped me on that one. I said, "Well, because I helped build it." And then I I thought about it and I thought, "Well, wait a minute. I can mathematically prove this to you. I can mathematically prove you prove to you that there's no reason we need this much data capacity for what what you and I would call good everyday digital activities. There's no way we need this much data capacity. And I thought about it. I thought, all right, maybe we can mathematically prove this right now, but it'd probably take me at least an hour on the whiteboard here. We had a whiteboard. And I thought, hm, I don't know that everybody wants to stay here another hour. It was already, you know, 8 or 9:00 at night. And uh I decided, you know what? We're going to try and write a white paper. So my husband and I are actually drafting a white paper because of this cash talk. We're actually drafting a white paper. Um it's sort of maybe I don't know a third written because we've had to campaign for his election, but we will finish it and uh it's going to take a stab at mathematically proving that digital centers are going to be used at control. So that's going to be something we're going to be working on after the election. Um all because of cash. So >> this is fantastic. I didn't know about this. >> Yep. >> I can't wait. So, one of the things I want to bring up to you is if you look at the payment stable coin marketing plans, uh, because I think control, you know, you're going to have programmable money with payment stable coins, but also with the digital tokens. So, the DTC has announced their effort to tokenize all 114 trillion of stocks and bonds. So you're going to have programmable money embedded in stable coins being marketed all around the world. Dollar stable coins and the digital tokens marketed all around the world. So if you look at the size of the financial data, not to mention the surveillance data coming in on that. >> That's going to be part of the formula. >> Right. >> Right. >> Right. Exactly. Exactly. So, we're capturing all that in our white paper and doing some calculations and numbers um and showing that the numbers don't line up for anything else but control. >> Anything else but basically a utopia style control, >> right? >> So, all right. So, the next thing we did in the cash world in the turtle for cash is we did cash legislation. So, one exciting thing is our representative that brings our cash legislation. His name is John Sharta. A fantastic local farmer, such a great guy, such a ethical, honest, just amazing person. He actually got a nickname this year and his nickname is Johnny Cash and everyone started calling him Johnny Cash this session, which was great. So I asked him for one bill this session and it is a house concurrent resolution 64. It's a concurrent resolution encouraging the use of physical cash and transactions. And then it says it has a bunch of whereases whereas payment with physical cash prevents tracking and controlling purchases and whereas payment with physical cash saves businesses money on transaction fees etc etc. I won't read the whole thing. Uh, be it resolved that the citizens of this state are strongly encouraged to support businesses that offer a discount for using phys physical cash. Um, be it resolved that the citizens of this state are strongly encouraged to pay with physical cash whenever and wherever possible, etc. So I just wanted a resolution to bring awareness to cash and with so with this resolution I had two handouts that the committee got and that we actually put on the floor of the house which is 70 uh house representatives. I had two handouts. So the first handout is the South Dakota businesses with a lower cash price. So, it's by city and it has all the businesses that either offer a cash discount or charge you a fee for using the card. So, that's a list of businesses. And then we also have a website with the same information on it. And I asked the representatives if they know of any other businesses in their towns to please write them on the handout and give it back to the repres Johnny Cash and he would get it back to me and we'd update our list. And so our list has actually I think in the last year it's doubled in size I believe. Um at Rogue Foods I got a bunch of new businesses that that on the list. So anyway, so the resolution was an excuse to bring awareness to these businesses to bring awareness to cash and to get them talking about cash. And the other thing handout I gave them is this Solary business flyer that Soleri did for us. um why I'm proud to be a cash friendly businesses uh business benefits for businesses customers and communities. So they got these two handouts on their desk and the resolution was really intended to bring awareness to cash. So this resolution uh made it through committee. Uh, we had I I said it was uh inspired by this representative I'll call him representative S who said well he voted against every single cash bill we brought so far and he said well just pay cash if you want to. Um and I thought well we should then he said my business offers a cash discount so businesses can do that if it's economic blah blah blah we have a free market. So I in testimony I said we don't really have a free market when 50% of our GDP is from the government. Um that's not really a free market. Um and so we want to support these businesses that offer to cash discount like yours representative s and he actually voted for us for this cash resolution which was super exciting for me. Um and we got out of committee no problem. And then we um I think we yeah we got out of committee 8 to4. We passed the House floor 43 to 24 and then basically we fumbled it in the Senate and this was kind of my fault. We thought the senator that had signed on to it was going to prime sponsor it. Turns out he didn't want to prime sponsor it. We had our prime sponsor from the cash at school events. He would he actually called me before session and asked me asked me what he could do to help us with cash. So, we got him to sign on to it, but we thought it was going to be assigned to committee. They waved committee and just put us on the Senate floor the next day. So, we didn't have time to prep him on the bill. We didn't have time to get handouts to everybody. So, the Senate, it tied uh I think it was Oh, it failed actually 16 to 18. So, we failed on the Senate floor 16 to 18. But like I said, that was with no handouts and no preparation. He just stood up there and said something and wasn't prepared. And we weren't prepared because we wanted to go to committee. We wanted So, we fumbled. We should have the Senate uh promp. He's he's like-minded um on cash. So, we should have we just fumbled. We should have gotten with him earlier. We thought he was going to send it to committee. He didn't. and we just fumbled it. So that'll be a good excuse to bring back next year. So this resolution will be back next year. We'll be talking about cash again with this uh resolution. So I was excited that uh to do that again. But then Johnny Cash said he wanted our cash at retail bill back and I did not want to bring that bill back. We lost last year we lost 0 to13 in committee and we had a line of lobbyists out the door testifying against us. We got hammered and I just didn't see any reason to waste our time and energy bringing that back. And we wrote a good bill. It wasn't a few things could have been done differently but we had a good bill. So, I just didn't see any reason to come back with it. But he said Representative L want wants it brought back. Now, Representative L voted against us. And I thought, well, clearly Representative L has taken a year to think about their decision. And >> he probably saw Utopia. >> I I don't know. Um, but Representative L wants it brought back, so we should bring it back. And I thought, all right, we'll get hammered 1 to 12 instead of 0 to 13. Okay, well, if they really want it brought back, we'll bring it back. And he said, yeah, we need to bring back. This person asked us to bring it back. We have to bring it. So, we made a few little minor changes. Nothing major. The I would say the main change we made uh was we put the bill instead of being in effect the ne it would have been passed sort of in March it would have gone into effect in July. We made it a year and a half the July the next July it would go into effect. The reason being the board of regents and was complaining about their concession contracts and they're already in these contracts for no cash and so forth which is ridiculous because if the FDA updates you know food handling safety issues for their concessions they obviously have to make immediate changes to their contract. So I but whatever we that was the main change we made. So the bill was basically cash must be accepted at in-person retail and government transactions less than $100. So business retail inperson and government transactions less than $100. There were exceptions for airplanes, security deposits, rental cars, and banks. And it goes into effect one and a half years later to give time for concessions contracts to be re renegotiated. The other thing about the bill is the definition of cash is important. I sweated a lot over this with cash at school events and I got some push back and I stuck my guns I stuck to my guns which says cash means physical coin currency or notes that are designed as legal tender by federal law. Now the reason I was so picky about this is because I it says physical coin currency or notes that are designated as legal tender by federal law. They wanted to take out the physical because they potentially want to declare other things like digital currency legal tender. So I really wanted the word physical in there. So I fought for that and I and I got it I got it kept in all of our cash bills. We're talking about physical coin and currency. All right. So what did I do in committee differently this time? Uh I was more we were more wellprepared for committee this time. We obviously learned from getting hammered last time. So we had better arguments. So we had our updated statistics about from the Federal Reserve about the people who are unbanked. And basically what what it shows is that the people who are unbanked are still lowincome young people, minorities, and people with a disability. So the people that you're excluding by not accepting cash are still sort of these groups >> and it's a surprising number of people. >> Correct. It's about um what is it overall is 6% but 13% of blacks are unbanked. 12% of Hispanics are unbanked. 13% of people ages 18 to 29 are unbanked. And then we also looked at credit card ownership. Who has a credit card who doesn't? Um, and if you look at the people who don't have a credit card, it's mostly people with a disability, minorities, etc. So, we had updated statistics, sort of the same statistics they had already seen, but they were updated. The when we got hammered, there were a bunch of committee members that said, "Thank you for the statistics and the education that they learned something from our testimony because we actually need to be right with God and have proof for everything we say because the lobbyists are just making up things and saying things that aren't true. So, we were sure to be right and had [clears throat] statistics to back up what we say. And then the other >> So, I I just want to point out one thing because I live in a um in a county that has an average income of 24,000 and the percentages of people who don't have a credit card or unbanked are much higher is my guess. And so if you're a state legislator and you're in a state and you hear these statistics, what you have to understand is some of the poorer counties have much higher percentages and so it can be devastating for them. >> Exactly. So on our statistics here, it says if your family income is less than $25,000, 22% of those are unbanked. >> Exactly. And then if it's less than $25,000, uh 60 or 54% of those people do not have a credit card. Right. >> 54% of them don't have a credit card. >> Right. In my in in some of the counties in Tennessee, it's extraordinary. It's that kind of number. >> Exactly. >> Right. >> So then the other statistics we have are about share of consumers preferred payment instruments for in-person payments. So it tells us that in 2024 17% of people prefer paying with cash. And then the share of payment instrument used by household income. So it tells us that if you earn a household income of less than $25,000, 24% of those people households prefer to pay with cash versus greater than 150,000 in income. Only 9% of those households prefer to pay with cash. So, it's really the lowincome people that are even preserving our physical cash. The low-income people are preserving our freedom right now. And we've got to flip that. We've got to get the middle class, the upper class paying with physical cash because we are going to lose it. Um so, we've got the low God bless the low-income people um for for still using cash. So, the other thing that we had in testimony the previous time, again, back to Representative S., he said, well, he wanted a list of businesses that aren't accepting cash because he thinks in South Dakota this doesn't exist because why would a business not take cash? He's not seen the problem. He's also from a more rural community than Sou Falls, so he doesn't think it's a problem. So he wanted a list of businesses that didn't take cash. And when we the previous year when we got hammered, we didn't have a list. We weren't prepared for that question. We knew some that weren't taking cash, like school events. There was a car wash. Um but we hadn't we didn't have a comprehensive list. So this past year, I've been collecting a comprehensive list for Representative S. Not that I thought I would bring this bill back, but I just thought I like to be able to answer any question that's asked of me in terms of cash. So, let me collect a list. So, I've just basically been asking around word of mouth to friends and family. Give me a business that doesn't take cash. Can you send me any? And what I did then is I created a handout with all of the answers that I got. And this is my handout. It has one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine businesses on it in the whole state of South Dakota. That's what I could come up with. Now, what was interesting was [clears throat] as people started sending me businesses that don't take cash, I noticed these aren't small businesses. And wait a minute, are they even South Dakota businesses? So, what I did on my handout is I have two columns. I have I have the name of the business. Then I've got are they a small business? And then I have are they based in South Dakota? And then I have notes about the business. So let me just read through some of these for you. The first one is national parks. None of our national parks or monuments in South Dakota take cash. Are they small businesses? >> So Mount Rushmore takes cash >> for I think the parking does. You're only paying for parking at Rushmore. You're not paying for admission. So, >> so that's the parking vendor, not the national park. >> We know somebody at Mount Rushmore who works there is trying to push cash and thanks people for using cash is my understanding. >> Well, you can pay cash at uh at the ice cream shop. >> Okay. >> And you can pay cash in the in the uh gift shop. >> In the gift shop. Okay. Must be the gift shop. >> Yeah. By the way, if you come to South Dakota, okay, you go to Rushmore. Um two things about if we can diverge about Rushmore. First of all, I don't like ice cream. Go in the ice cream shop and get an ice cream. They have the what is it? The [sighs] Abraham Lincoln ice cream or the Franklin ice cream. Anyway, this ice cream recipe has no artificial. It's all pure ingredients. They list all the ingredients out. It's the old school recipe and it is just so fantastic. It's not toxic and I actually can eat it because it's not toxic. So, do get an ice cream at Mount Rushmore if you go. Second thing is if you go to Mount Rushmore, don't go without going to Crazy Horse. Crazy Horse is way better than Rushmore. And it's a way better story because the government tried to make Crazy Horse a national monument. And they said, "No, we don't want the government support. We don't." And they said, "Well, you'll never finish it. It, you know, it'll take forever. You guys can't run it." And they said, "No, we don't want the money. We're not going to make it a national park." So definitely go to Crazy Horse, watch the movie. Um it's another great example of push back. >> So can I just tell you I was driving past Mount Rushmore, the turnoff for Mount Rushmore on the highway and it was snowing and I thought, okay, this is could be dangerous cuz it, you know, the snow got very bad and I ended up in a ditch. But but I said, I have I can't pass Mount Rushmore or not go. So I went up there and it was a weekend. There was no one there because of the snowstorm and it was wonderful. So, I spent a couple hours there and the staff was incredible. So, I love Mount Rushmore, but I apparently have to go to Crazy Horse. >> Yes, definitely. Crazy Horse way better. Um, so back to the national parks. So, they are not a small business and they are not based in South Dakota and they don't take cash. Okay, next one. Denny Sanford Premier Center Concessions. They're not a small business. They're not based in South Dakota. Denny Sanford Premier Center Concessions is operated by Legends Global based in Los Angeles, California with a revenue of $1.7 billion in 2024. Okay, the next one, Nautical Bowls. They're not a small business and they're not based in South Dakota. They have 174 locations worldwide, headquartered in Minnesota. The next one, Sanford Pentagon Admissions. They're not a small business. They are based in South Dakota. They're owned by Sanford Health. Their revenue was 9.8 billion and income was 1 billion in 2025. The next one, Silverstar Car Wash. They're not a small business. They're not based in South Dakota. They have 11 locations in South Dakota. They're not now part of Mammoth Holdings based out of Atlanta with 67 car washes across the Midwest. There's four more here. I'm not going to read through all of them, but you get the idea. These are not small businesses and these are not South Dakota based. Now, if you compare that back to the list of businesses offering a cash discount in South Dakota, these are all for the most part local restaurants. You know, uh if I could read them off, but they probably mean nothing to you guys cuz they're not chain restaurants for the most part. They're local businesses. Um, >> they're local businesses owned by people in South Dakota who trust their employees. >> Correct. So, what I showed is that the businesses that aren't taking cash are billiondoll corporations, not small businesses, not most of them not based in South Dakota. So actually, Representative S did me did us a favor by forcing us to prove this that who's forcing the cashless society, the big corporations. He helped us prove that in sort of a a very very different way. Um this bill after all this, we did have some lobbyists testify against us, not as many this time. We did much better compared to them. We failed four to eight. We went from 0 to 13 to 4 to8. The Freedom Caucus supported the bill this time. They were against it the first time. We had one vote missing which should have been in our favor. So I think we should have been 5 to8. And then I think we had one legislator that was on our side and questioned on our side and then voted against. So I'm not sure if that was a little confusion there. So we did great. We did so much better than I even thought. And as a tidbit from the cell tower moms, uh we did a data center bill and one of those people listened to our cash testimony because she was going to come testify for the data center bill. I said, "Oh, we're going to be in cash committee. Why don't you listen to our testimony?" And so she listened to our testimony. She's a small business owner, local business owner, very successful business. And she listened to our cash testimony. She said, "That is terrible. and I'm a member of South Dakota retailers that testified against you and was kind of mean about it. She immediately cancelled her membership to South Dakota re retailers. So, I thought this is great because of the cell tower moms and sort of this connection and the data center. Now, we're raising more awareness about cash, >> right? >> Um and we're not going to support the businesses that are we're not going to support fund our enemies anymore. So the other bills we had um were all the digital money bills and we had several of them. We had state investments in Bitcoin. So this would permit the state to invest in Bitcoin again brought by a legislator with a Bitcoin mining operation. It failed uh last year the previous session and it failed again 3 to 10. So that was good. And the next bill we had was a T-old bill. It was a digital gold bill declaring digital gold legal tender. The gold would sit in a depository out of state. The treasurer would go audit and make sure the gold was there. The state would pick a vendor to do this legal tender digital gold. And it did have a social credit system clause. So it said you can't use this for a social credit system. Now who in the world would enforce that once your bank accounts in frozen? I don't know who can even enforce that. But >> but you can install programmable money without it being deemed a social credit system. >> Yeah. I mean, there were multiple problems with it. >> Why in the world South Dakota would want to declare digital money legal tender is beyond me. It just makes no sense. Unfortunately, what happened was the committee let the proponents of the bill just go on and on and on. And I was actually at Rogue Foods at the time, missing talks that I wanted to hear and sitting in a little private room listening to this testimony, waiting for my turn to testify so I can get back to the talks I want to listen to at Road Foods. Well, he just didn't put in any time limits. And so it was an hour later until I finally got to testify. And let me tell you, I was hopping mad. I am very difficult. I don't have patience. And I was mad by the time I got to testify. And the other thing I was mad about was that the proponent had, you know, had all these testifiers that weren't that were saying things that were misleading, sort of in the category of lies. One of his testifiers said that this would establish a physical bullion depository in the state, which is not what the bill said at all. So, there were just blatant lies about what the bill even was. Um, so I was mad by the time I got to testify and I just I completely lost my cool, but I guess it was good that I did because let me tell you what happened. I testified against the bill with all the sort of normal reasons and then I said, you know what, if South Dakota wants to declare something legal tender, let's back our money by by buffalo instead of gold. Why would we back our money with gold that sits out of state that's controlled by other people where the treasurer has to go audit the gold in a different state? Let's back our currency by buffalo where we actually have buffalo in the state. In fact, South Dakota has three 33,995 buffalo, the most of any state. Nebraska has 32,26 buffalo. So South Dakota owns the buffalo market. If we make Buffalo legal tender, we make ourselves rich instead of other people. Okay? So, let's declare, let's back our money by buffalo. We can trade that digitally, too, on our phone with an app and we can trade a leg of a buffalo or an eye of a buffalo just like they want to trade a fraction of a gold. Let's make it buffalo instead of gold. >> So, can I just stop you for a second? Because if you go back 50 centuries, the history of currency, the first currency were cows. So this is not as unusual as you might think, >> right? So at the end of my testimony, uh some other opponents testified with me on didn't talk about Buffalo, but I I knew I lost my cool with the whole Buffalo thing, but it was true. You know, the thing was so ridiculous that I really felt we should go with Buffalo instead of gold. So the committee went around and they have committee discussion and the chair of the committee said I was thinking about it and in South Dakota we have a lot of grain in grain bins. Why don't we back our currency with our grain in our grain bins? And I thought yes [laughter] let's do that. Even better than Buffalo grain doesn't die you know I mean so he got it. He actually got it. The bill tied four to four. The bill tied four to four. It was I think a Thursday. They don't they're not in session on Friday. That Friday, so we had the whole weekend and they were going to reconsider on Monday when the one person that was missing was going to be back. The bill tied four to four. So we had the weekend to try to send more emails and do more phone calls. and they weren't going to uh retestify the bill, reconsider, they were just going to revote on it on Monday. So, one of the things that I noticed in the proponent testimony was that the prime sponsor had these slides that were very glittery. They were black slides with sort of gold and silver and they were very uh wordy and long and clearly he did not make them. There's no way that prime sponsor made those slides. I knew that they were too glittery, too goldy. Um, and so I thought I had seen that somewhere before. And sure enough, it turns out he used slides from Kevin Freeman, who is Pirate Money. Okay, he's from Pirate Money. He wrote a book called Pirate Pirate Money and I believe has has some kind of company uh Pirate Money. So from Pirate Money, I was able to trace that back that Pirate Money has a partnership with Glint, which is a payment processing system, and Glint partners with Mastercard. So what I did is I wrote an email to the legislators on the committee, and I said, "The prime sponsor slides were made by Mr. Kevin Freeman from Pirate Money. Pirate Money Partners with Glint, a digital gold processing company based out of the UK, and Glint partners with Mastercard." So the money train is the senator's slides, Mr. Freeman, pirate money, Glint, Mastercard. I traced the money trail all the way back to Mastercard via Glint, an outofcountry company. Okay, so the Glint and Mastercard are funding the push for legal tender status of gold and silver nationwide so they can make money from transaction fees on our everyday transactions. That kind of makes sense. But the bill doesn't require us to use digital payments. That's what the prime sponsor is saying. He's saying, "Well, people don't have to use it if they don't want to. We'll just make it legal tender, but they don't have to use it." That's his argument. And so I email in the email I said, "Isn't that is not true. Consider that there's currently federal litigation pending that would require national parks to accept physical cash because it's legal tender." So there's currently litigation pending that says you have to accept money if it's legal tender. So they want to get this legal tender everywhere in the country and then we're going to pass federal legislation that says you have to accept legal tender. Now all the businesses in South Dakota have to accept digital gold, you know, and these payment processing systems. So I sent that email. I prayed. I had other friends send emails and Monday morning they revoted and the final bill failed one to seven. Yes. So I don't know if it was because of my email tracing the money and pointing out that they want to require people to take it. I don't know what did it but it did fail 1 to7. I'm sure it will be back next year. That senator has said that that was his best bill and he I'm sure it'll be back next year if he's back. So, we did in South Dakota also have a debanking bill. It's an act to protect persons from discrimination by financial institutions. I did not testify for that bill. Um, the reason being that that committee at that point was sick of me. Um, so I just was not a good person to testify for that bill, >> but only for banks above a certain size. >> Okay. >> Yeah. >> Okay. Yes. So, it it failed four to nine. Um, and then the other thing that's happened is that my husband is actually running for legislature. I already talked about that. He's decided to step up because no one else would run. And we're actually doing things a little differently. So, we're not campaigning on social media. We don't think it's healthy. We don't let our kids have it. We don't use it. And we're just not using it for this campaign. There's some people that say we can't win because of that. There's some people that love it and are voting for us because we're not using social media. So, we've got everything in between. We are not using AI to write our content. Most people are. We are self-funding, so we are not taking any donations from anybody. We've had some unsolicited donations from packs come in and we actually spend our own money on a stamp to send them back. Uh for our family, it's kind of priceless that we can say we tried to do something. It's priceless to look at each other and our kids and say we stepped up. We tried to do something. We ran my husband for legislature. And we are using a lot of solar words. So, we're we're creating um content that talks about financial transaction freedom and local food and health freedom and digital surveillance and culture. These are topics that no one talks about when they're campaigning. And because we don't really want to be in the legislature, we just want to offer people a choice. We see it more as an opportunity to raise awareness about these topics that no one in South Dakota is talking about. So, that's what we're doing. The elections tomorrow. Uh, we honestly have already won. Uh, the other thing we did is I wrote a wife letter. You're supposed to write a wife letter promoting your husband and I couldn't. That's not really my personality to say how wonderful my husband is. He's great. >> He is wonderful. >> He is wonderful, but it's just not my personality to do that. It's more my personality to make fun of him and then he knows I love him. Uh, so I wrote the wife letter mostly about cash. Uh, it's on the on his website. If you Google Manuel Luchas, you can check it out. I wrote it [clears throat] mostly about cash and how cash preserves our freedom. The other thing the legislative campaign did is it helped us find like-minded people and it helped raise awareness. So we now have a network of people that we didn't have before that agree with us on data centers, cell phone towers, cash, all these issues. The other thing I did is I used it as a prayer mission. So when I was knocking doors, it was incredibly painful for me. But one thing I started doing is that I pray at every door that I knock. So that means I've prayed at thousands of doors. And I tell you that is priceless. That is priceless. Whether he wins or loses, I don't even tell people I'm praying at their doors. I I ring the doorbell. I knock. I pray and until they answer. That's what I've turned it into is a prayer mission. And we had I want to mention this too. We had the best idea ever from a country door that we knocked. This country uh voter said, "You know what I'm starting to think we should do? I'm starting to think we should treat politicians like jury duty. We should just pull names and if your name gets pulled, you're the president. And if your name gets pulled, you're a legislator. And I just thought about this and I thought, what if you're a drug addict? And then I thought, wait a minute, that might be better than some of the people we have. This is a brilliant idea. And you know what? He's got a point. You get the money out of politics, which is one of the things we're talking about. Get money out of politics. If you just pulled names and did it like jury duty, it might be it might be better than what we've got. So, the other thing I want to mention is that healthy people can think and vote and make a decision. If we're not all healthy, it's hard for voters to think and make a good decision. So, the number one thing we need to do also as a voter is keep ourselves healthy. So, healthy water, food, etc. The other thing I want to say, even though my husband's running for a legislature, we don't believe that the legislature can fix all our problems. Like I said, you can pass laws until you're red in the face, but a lot of them aren't being enforced anyway. Uh the most important thing we can do is pay with cash every day, gas and groceries at a minimum. Refuse to shop at businesses that don't take cash, and don't be afraid to do these things and turtle forth. >> So, I'm going to bring up one more thing. So, um, you clearly guys, you have it good in South Dakota because you haven't brought up disasters and emergencies. One of the things we're seeing all around the world is more and more people are saying, you know something, it was a mistake, the Scandinavian central banks, it's a mistake to roll back cash because when we have an emergency, we are in real trouble if we don't have cash. Cash literally in emergencies saves lives. So we saw in East Tennessee and western North Carolina, the people who had cash came out much much better than those who don't. So that is a very very compelling reason. And all I can figure is life is good in South Dakota because you didn't bring that up. >> We didn't we did bring that up the first year we did it. So in turling for cash part one that was one of the things we talked about. >> We did bring that up. It did not resonate. We need a natural disaster in South Dakota. It did not re that that point did not resonate here. It did not. >> So in Tennessee it resonates tremendously. >> I bet. >> Right. >> I bet. >> Right. Right. So it depends on where you are. Okay. So turtle forth. I think I nobody I know is does a better job of turtling than you. You never give up. And what I'm always asked is why are you so helpful and why do you never give up? And I just want you to say one last word before we close about why you never give up. Because I have to be able to look myself and my kids in the face and say, "I did everything I could. I tried." >> Right? >> I just have to be good with myself and say, "I did everything I could." And that's priceless. Win or lose, I did everything I could, the best I could, >> and tried to be the best person I could be. >> Now, I have to apologize to you because I picked up $2,000 in cash along the way on the trip and I burned through it. So, on the way to South Dakota, uh, we've been paying for everything with cash except for gas. I've been using the credit card, but I'm going to hit the ATM when I leave here, and I'm going to go back to cash for for the gas, too. Okay, great. You've inspired me. >> Susan Luchas, thank you so much. Ladies and gentlemen, have a wonderful day. Thank you for joining us on this report. >> Heat. Heat. [music]
