So, my guess is that the big footprint data centers are very much designed in the United States to implement programmable money and control because if trade wars are not going to solve the imbalance problem and we've had 50 years of buying popular support in the United States with fiscal largesse you know, the way to change that is with financial repression and that requires enormous amounts of data. If you look at the AI in the United States, it's not being primarily engineered to produce productivity, it's being engineered to keep the stock market levitated and the population under control. Uh absolutely and this is what I mean, I was there a time there was a big AI conference taking place in Beijing when I was there with Huawei and all these uh experts and I'm not a I'm not a technical expert but but the message and this is what this man said to me and he said, "Look, your AI in the West is going to crash and burn Right. >> because you I mean, the cost, the capital cost, the CAPEX is unimaginable on this. >> Right. And there's not going to be the revenues to support it. Right. And there's not the energy. Not the energy. Right. We don't have the Not the energy. That's when he mentioned, you know, we have energy at 1/6 of the price if you can get it in the West. But we have it at 1/6 of the price but we're not in that game of trying to do that. We are trying to do a very factory floor structure of AI that we make ourselves competitive and it's uh all about productivity. And you don't have the manufacturing to do that anyway. I mean, I'm talking about Europe as well as America. You just don't We're not geared to that. We're not in Europe, not at all geared to that. And he said, "So, what you have?" And he said, "Of course, you know, your AI was basically derived from military appropriation. >> Right. From Afghanistan, from Iraq, um trying to um im- impute intent to people. And that's what's attracted government. How do we impute intent of people to be in opposition to us. We want that so that we can control things much better. Control the money and control them. And it is really uh uh uh a very repressive It is um not only just a repressive, but it is is more more than that. It is a a deeply sinister approach.
