The phrase I want everyone to know, and your audience may already be familiar with this cuz I know you talk about these types of issues, but the the phrase I want everyone to key in on is called pattern of life data. Pattern of life data is is the stuff that people used to tell you don't worry about this because it's boring, nobody cares. What time do you get up in the morning? What route do you take to work? Where do you go for lunch? This is pattern of life data. And in the past, people would say, "My life is so boring, no one cares." Yes, they do. Because with pattern of life data, I can start making predictions about you. How likely are you to buy this new product? So, advertisers want pattern of life data, but much much worse than that, I made a video about Florida House Bill 945. This was introduced this year in the Florida legislature, and it passed through three House committees before finally stalled. It's not dead. It's it's dead for this year, but I can almost guarantee that it will be back next year. Here's what Florida House Bill 945 does. Number one, it grants um it grants the Florida government it was not real specific. Does this mean the governor or does this mean the legislature? But it grants the Florida government the right to determine who is on the terrorist list. Today, the president of the United States makes that decision. Yep. Um but it's it's going to grant the state government the ability to decide who's the terrorist. I don't like that. And and this is not a slam on Ron DeSantis. I don't think governors should have that authority because if 50 governors have that authority, I can virtually guarantee there are organizations I belong to that are going to be on somebody's terror list. >> Right. >> Uh because depending on who the governor is, you know, the the NRA, clearly that's a terrorist organization. Mhm. So, I I don't want governors having that authority, period. But beyond that, House Bill 945 creates a new anti-terrorism group in Florida. B- because nobody at the federal level fights terrorism, I say very sarcastically. Department of Justice, the FBI, uh National Counterterrorism Center, I mean, on and on. There's there's dozens of uh federal agencies that are dedicated to fighting terrorism. But uh Florida House Bill 945 creates a state-level anti-terrorism task force. And they are tasked with identifying, here's the new term, that the word terrorist has a very specific meaning. You pick up any dictionary, a terrorist is a person or organization that uses violence or the threat of violence to achieve a political end. Well, the state of Florida created a new term. They call it an adversary intelligence entity. So, they're not using the T-word, they're calling it an adversary intelligence entity, but that is defined as Hope everyone's seated. A government, a non-governmental organization, a group, a business, a corporation, blah blah blah, or individual. So, a single person could be an adversary intelligence entity. So, what makes an individual an adversary intelligence entity? Any individual whose demonstrated actions or views or opinions are deemed a threat to the interest of the state. I have a huge problem with that language. If someone determines my views or my opinions are a threat to the interest of the state, I'm now labeled. I'm labeled as a adversary intelligence entity. And couple of immediate questions come to my mind. Number one, who gets to decide what are the interest of the state? Is that the governor's job? Is that the legislature's job? Is that the court's job? Who determines the interest of the state? >> Uh in my experience, it's the major donors. >> [laughter]
