This was probably the most important document I ever asked for when I was still taking my babies, my, you know, at the time my oldest was five and we were attending a well care visit. Right? Just checking in on milestones and that's what you think that you're there for. But it's interesting that it always syncs up with their next round of shots and when they're due or when the financial model says we should probably get them in there for another round of shots. So I had just spoken to another mom who was like you go to well care visits? Don't you know that that's just the vaccine schedule? That they, you know, and I was like what? So at that next visit, bring my babies, but I'm ready to ask questions and that's when you get the real, you know, the real deal. So totally trusted pediatrician. Actually really liked him, you know, brought my kiddos in when something was a little off or they had something that, you know, was uh you know, does does they does that need to be treated? And so I asked the question, the forbidden question. Can I see the actual insert from the box of that vaccine that you're telling me that he needs. And that was only one of the three or four that, you know, he was due for. So I didn't get any eye contact. The pediatrician left the room without saying a word and walked around the corner to the refrigerator where the vials were kept. Peeled it off, walked back into the room and opened it And it's probably, I don't know if you can see my hands, it's probably this big. We know it starts out this big and then it opens up into this big. And from about 4 ft away, 4-5 ft away, he threw it at me and said, "Enjoy your reading." >> Wow. >> So, he was aware you then? >> Well, you know, I thought to myself, I think I just may have ruined like a cruise that he was going to, you know, get or some sort of $100,000 bonus. And lo and behold, I did. I was I was probably changing his percentage of his clinic or his practice and dropping him below the, you know, vaccine, you know, percentage of his practice. So, I left, no shots, never again, went home, underlined, circled, and I was appalled at what I had. And And this is not a shaming of myself, a shaming of any mama that's ever been through this, but it is really an opportunity to go, "Who am I trusting?"
