I just got through traveling to 20 different cities in the United States and Canada. And everywhere I went, I found people who are making huge profits on their stock portfolio. And they have absolutely no idea that they are deeply over concentrated in 10 or less stocks in their stock portfolio. Um they have no idea that they're at all-time highs. >> Yes. >> They're not taking any action to protect themselves. They're just assuming it's going to keep on rolling. They don't know there's a problem. >> 45% of the S&P 500 is AI or AI-adjacent. Um the market cap of Nvidia, the darling of the AI boom, is bigger than the whole healthcare sector. So, uh you're betting if you're buying the S&P 500 index, you're buying very concentrated index and you're betting on exponential growth uh because you need exponential growth to justify the valuations they're currently at. And I've seen this before. Uh it's the dot-com bubble. It's not that different. It's a tech hype cycle. A lot of capital has been raised. It's being plowed into AI. And uh we're starting to discover that AI is a commodity. Uh and that there's a lot of different options. And a lot of this infrastructure is going to be stranded and there's going to be a credit cycle, which it which is already beginning. Private credit's frozen. Private equity's got issues. Uh the stocks of the mag seven that have announced CapEx increases recently are getting punished because there are ROI concerns. And this is classic and uh there's going to the bubble's going to burst. And uh we're going to have a stock correction. And and if not a stock correction, at least a correction in in those in those concentrated stocks which are going to devastate um devastate uh investors' portfolios. This is nothing new under the sun. Nothing new. >> So, I I believe, as you know, that the capital pouring into all of this is designed to build the control grid that they need to do global stable coins and and move everything on a distributed ledger. So, we have stocks and bonds being moved onto distributed ledger. We have bank deposits being distributed moved onto distributed ledger. We have stable coins. If you're going to build that whole infrastructure, that's a strategic build. It's not an economic build. And and that's hence the pouring of other people's money into building it. We just published an article about the taxpayers' money that's being used to build it. And now we're working on something on the private private side on on the data centers. >> A lot of the capital's been private at the moment. Um if there is a bust and you see the government step in to buy these data centers uh for pennies on the dollar, then the thesis that this is a control grid goes up in my estimation considerably. Uh so, we have to uh right now, uh the government is not I mean, they're they're giving tax breaks and they're not directly funding these, but should they step in, they're they're not going to do a bailout. Uh it's too big to bail out. Uh they'll they'll they'll just come in and assume it at much lower prices at once the capital is destroyed. >> Right. Actually, if you look at the tax break the tax breaks and some of what the state and local governments are doing, the the taxpayer funding is more than it looks. But to me, the big you know, the giant straw sucking sound is out of people's out of the pension funds and retirement funds and IRAs. >> It's already happened. Uh Larry Fink that made the rounds on the conspiracy uh networks by saying, "Oh, it's going to come from the your savings, your 401K, the pension." It's already It's already happened. It's >> [laughter] >> I mean, it's this is >> Right, but it's phenomenal. You can go to a meeting, you know, these big meetings where everybody in the county is apoplectic about the data center and they're trying to stop the data center and they don't realize that they're financing the data centers.
