Be aware that we actually can see traumas as money in the bank. You should not see it as a negative part because when we take them out, we can just take them out and it's like cash. You get a lot of energy released. Even people would cry, we would sing on the cry because the the the cry would show which notes will release. And then you just make it very dramatic and of course that's the part that's a little bit overwhelming for some that they just ah, you know, >> Make a big show out of it. Let me just summarize. You said that trauma that we is may have stored in the body which may have even made us ill or may caused pain. >> It is because it's it's a compromising our original energy. All what we have to keep down will compromise us. >> And that is like money in the bank because once we pull it out, we can use it because there is a lesson in it and there is a potential for change in it. And in your workshops and we have experienced this we've observed this this weekend. We we actually um we learn to sing our own note. That is one part. That is the beginning and that is the most simple and it's most healing. We don't we don't even need to know more about how to do um healing. But then what also happens once we go there especially with other people and that they help us or when you are there present then we can find this trauma and it can happen that it is released. >> Yeah, and that's especially also what happened to That's why I can say you cannot call it surely science this because I can't explain this. Many things we can't explain but first of all that there will be images. I mean if you close your eyes and you hear an authentic voice, it should be an authentic expression. You will not see it if it's someone tell you know trying to trying to do it something. But if it's authentic, you will feel and you all some will feel it some will see it. I see images. stories and I call it storytelling because we don't have to say that we are clever yet and or that's the truth I have power on each other. But if that story late to people without they telling me anything before that then when you are in oneness because when you sing authentically you get into the oneness because it's the listening for something deep inside you then you can change stories. You can even change something you know happened because you change the energy in it because oneness is no time. >> The memory of it may be the same but the energy and emotion associated with it >> It's like empty in the car carton box. So it it might be that you can have a memory but you have no pain body about it anymore maybe just say okay it happened yeah but it's over. >> It's it's the essence of forgiveness. >> Yes in a way. But you can't forgive if if you have if you have pain still you it's not impossible. >> So so in addition to the forgiveness and the this attitude of you know overcoming you also need that experience of release and and freedom and wholeness again within yourself. >> And also when you see this image you need not to think. You need to trust and that's about the surrendering that the note from heaven that you learn to trust what's happening in the moment.
