Finding that note from heaven that uh is our own note is in itself healing. That um experience of the oneness as you're calling it is an a healing experience. >> Yes. >> Because you feel a power that you did not know you had. Like this experience I had an I shared an example of a woman that was had 1 week left from the hospital to live because she had no immune system, but I when I asked her to find an emotion and she found an anger, she could express that anger with her voice and that ignited her life force. So that means that when we express something unique, the life force will the chi, you can say so, will will grow and you can build it up in yourself. >> And it also means that unexpressed emotions um suppressed our life force and very many diseases and symptoms etc. come from exactly that. >> Yes. So one of the things also is that the when you sing on long notes, the exhalation is prolonged and the parasympathetic nerve system is activated. This every also the doctors know that that a long exhalation will calm us down and it will get us into a healing place because it's anti-stress. >> Yes. >> Let's talk about the breath because sound and breath is intimately related. Um the when when we sing, there's breathing necessary and um I know from your course that the breathing goes has to come from the belly. Can you explain a little more about that? >> Yes. Uh in normal classical singing you would also think from up here and all this and I think also that's important, but the main thing is to have a rooted energies field, you can say so. Because when we work with this, we we work with ourself as an electric system. And an electric system must have grounding, otherwise it will burn up the fuses. So, we cannot that the body would itself stop the voice. If if you would go into a field that will harm itself. The body doesn't want to be harmed. It's very intelligent. So, we need to ground ourself first of all, and that's why we have a deep breath. And we are breathing into the root root chakra, you can say so. By And also because while we do this, you will give massage to the inner organs for each breath. And we all the time talking about we express our thoughts, the feeling in our belly. More than we would express something we want to perform. It's never performance. It's authentic feeling. And that you can say the unconscious is living down there in the belly. In the Chinese system, the Dai Mai, the eight extraordinary vessels, the Dai Mai is the garbage can, you can say so. And it is around the belly, and that's exactly where we would press. And we could take layer by layer and and express the things we don't need.
