Jessica, you like a couple minutes before you said going back is a good way like a good advice and I think that's so true. Going back in terms of going back to natural material, going back to even home birth, going back to not having any ultrasounds. I think going back is one of the best advice a young mother can can get these days in this modern crazy world. >> Right. And I I think that that concept is becoming more and more um exciting to young people. Like I want to live on land. I want to raise my own animals. I want my kiddos to be barefoot chasing chickens and learn about math that way, you know, how many eggs did we collect and you know, because the the the shocker that I had I was at a regenerative ag conference uh probably 2019 and they had a lot of native tribes that that were part of the speakers um and and the the presentations that were given and this was something that dawned on me as like my mom, you know, she was taught that a microwave meal is a great option because you can go to work, you can still feed your family and then you can just throw together a microwave dinner and you all can just sit at a table, you know, at a little TV table and and watch a show and everybody gets fed. And that concept of efficiency, moms and working and um and disconnection what happens here here's something that I just came across recently. Um you know, if you go to like a national park or somewhere where there's wildlife and there will be there will be signs posted don't feed the wildlife." They become dependent on it. And then what happens? They become sick. Isn't that like us? Right? >> Spot on. >> You lose You lose all skills. You You lose the knowledge. And one generation is all it takes. My mom didn't cook for me. So So I mean it not that she didn't cook ever, but there wasn't that we all gather in the kitchen. Life was too busy, frankly. I mean I was training in the gym 6 hours a day for 5 days a week. And so, um you know, that wasn't that wasn't the the family dynamic that we had. But when you do that and you've got littles in the kitchen and they're making this and they're prepping that and they're you know, shucking the corn. They're there. That knowledge is being imbued in them that this is important. This is how we do things. This is what it looks is how it tastes like. This is how it transforms. This is how I cut. This is how I blend. This is how, you know, flavors are developed. The smells, all of that is is being, you know, transmuted into their DNA. And when you don't have that, it's like a sterile environment. Open the box. Microwave the plastic. Peel the plastic, you know. Now eat whatever highly processed, nutrient deficient, you know, cancer-promoting, etc. etc. food. So that's where my passion for that culinary IQ, that reclaiming I had to teach myself how to cook. I love it. It's like every day I'm doing something for the first time. And it's it's it's a spirit. And And Vanessa, I want to share this with you cuz I just shared it with the mentors in our in our Febru- I'm sorry, with the mamas in our February meeting is that you're you're going to welcome this baby home and everything is going to be about her first. Her first, you know, food, her first step, her first birthday, her first everything. And this concept of when was the last time you did something for the first time? You know, they're developing all these neural pathways at unprecedented rates, at rates that we just cannot even imagine. And what are we doing for the first time? That then creates that boldness, that confidence to step into something new. And often times for me, I did a whole year of doing something for the first time every day. It was a challenge that I did and it was incredible the things that I added to my skill set if I chose to. Some of the things I was like, and there's a reason that I don't do that. You know? But then there were things that were, you know, that was important and now I have the ability to make sourdough bread every single time we have, you know, breakfast, we can have that fresh, you know, fermented loaf or, you know, granola homemade or whatever it is. A lot of the times that newness happens in the kitchen, but it also happens with growing. It also happens with um, you know, leaning into new conversations or asking new questions and and it just breeds that curiosity that we often lose when we become new parents. You know, it's again, it's all about their first, but I want to encourage all these home builders to continue to focus on doing something for the first time every single day.
