So I may was making a list for money and markets tomorrow Tim of all the different explosions and sabotage of energy plants around the world in Australia in Russia in Austria in Italy all all over the world they're like 10 to 15 of them. It's not just what's happening in the Middle East. So so the the push to control using energy is really on. Yeah. So um Chevron it's amazing cuz Chevron was the one oil company still in Venezuela. So Okay. And and energy is important cuz if you look at a map you're shutting off you know Venezuela was a big shutdown of oil going to China and now in Iran you're trying to shut down other oil going to China and someone pointed out Richard Medhurst pointed out the other day that a lot of the Chinese refineries are set up to combine the Venezuelan heavy oil with the Iranian lighter oil and now that they're not getting the Venezuela oil and now they're having trouble with the Iran oil oil it it makes crazy with their supplies. Um the other >> Yeah the other thing is Trump is clearly trying to position and has been since the beginning the US to provide LNG to Europe. So >> Yes. shutting off the Russian >> and Greenland and all the things he talks about Right. >> is basically just simplistically saying come by from us now from the US from the from the west from the west. So part of this is creating a global energy scarcity not just with what you're doing in the Middle East but all these different sabotage and explosions around the world and Russian sanctions and Iranian sanctions you're trying to control who gets what energy and who has a low energy price. You know the the big competition what what is their cost of capital what is my cost of capital what is their cost of energy what is my cost of energy. And so so um but I think the other thing and you know that we talk a lot about is you're using energy um to attract people or force people into adopting your financial channel. So Yeah and I would say like you said what's your cost of capital and what's your cost of energy I believe if you were to look at a chart China had now has the lowest cost of capital in terms of their longer term bonds and that makes me wonder who's who's buying their debt or who's lending them money and maybe it's all the people that the US has alienated from Russia to Iran to all those people that want to have uh some solidness to their investment in terms of a bond and they're not worried about the you know they don't want to worry about the credit risk or the the fact that things can be shut off maybe they're just turning their capital to invest in China but for whatever re whoever is buying those bonds and I don't know the size of the bond market the cost of capital of China right now I believe is lower than the US and you Right and that's one of the reasons why I think they want to do everything they can to raise the price of energy to China. Cuz they can control the US can control and the people up top can can control with all these blocks and sabotage and all that they can't easily control the yield on the Chinese bond. Right. >> It's harder for them to do it. Right. Right they can well they can you know they can use their financial bazooka to make crazy in the market but it's too broad and deep so
